[title=MoF: Bullet hitboxes glitch]
# Bullet hitboxes glitch
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaC[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The bullets on [hl2]Kanako's 2nd spell-card[/hl2] and on [hl2]Kananko's 4th spell-card[/hl2] have a larger hitbox than what they are supposed to have.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This is done by facing Kanako regardless of difficulty. The bullets automatically have the wrong hitbox after they undergo a bullet transformation.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

After the original bullet transforms into a new bullet, the [hl2]new bullet keeps the hitbox of the original bullet[/hl2]. This may result in the new bullet having a smaller, the same or a larger hitbox than the original bullet.

### Kanako's 2nd spell-card
The bullets are originally jellybean bullets that then transform into rice bullets, which results in the hitbox of the rice bullets to have the same hitbox as the jellybean bullets. The jellybean bullets have a hitbox of 5.0 units. The rice bullets have a hitbox of 4.0 units. This means that the [hl2]transformed rice bullets have a hitbox that is 1.0 units larger[/hl2] than intentional.

### Kanako's 4th spell-card
The bullets are originally fireball bullets that then transform into arrowhead and rice bullets, which results the arrowhead and rice bullets to have the same hitbox as the fireball bullets. The fireball bullets have a hitbox of 6.0 units. The arrowhead bullets have a hitbox of 4.0 units. The rice bullets also have a hitbox of 4.0 units. This means that the [hl2]transformed rice and arrowhead bullets have a hitbox that is 2.0 units larger[/hl2] than intentional.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Any replay saved that reaches Kanako suffices, so none are provided in this section.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[buildCategoriesTable]