[title=MoF: The 2038 problem]
# The 2038 problem
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaC[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

If your operating system's time is after the timestamp 19th of January 2038, 03:14:07 UTC, your game will likely crash.

[img=https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/2038.png, figtitle=Relevant xkcd (https://xkcd.com/607/)., alt=xkcd 607 is shown, describing the issue of the year 2038.]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This happens if your operating system's time is after the timestamp 19th of January 2038, 03:14:07 UTC. [hl2]The crash has multiple ways of taking place[/hl2], which are listed as follows:

1. The crash happens on writing to the scorefile (if score is in top 10) (offset: 0x421fa0)
2. The crash happens on replay save (non-extra credit clear) (offset: 0x433570)
3. The crash happens on replay save (stage practice, extra credit clear) (offset: 0x4236f0)

## [why]
[hr_minor]

When saving player data, one of the values needed is the current time. For the game to get your operating system's current time, the following code is run when it needs the current time:

[code]using time32_t = int32_t;

time32_t __time32(time32_t* out)
{
    FILETIME ft;
    GetSystemTimeAsFileTime(&ft);

    // Official Windows way to convert FILETIME -> 64‑bit integer
    ULARGE_INTEGER u;
    u.LowPart  = ft.dwLowDateTime;
    u.HighPart = ft.dwHighDateTime;

    uint64_t filetime = u.QuadPart;

    static const uint64_t EPOCH_DIFF = 116444736000000000ULL;

    uint64_t unixSeconds = (filetime - EPOCH_DIFF) / 10000000ULL;

    // The 2038 overflow happens here !!!
    time32_t result = static_cast<time32_t>(unixSeconds);

    if (out)
        *out = result;

    return result;
}
[/code]

(For technical readers, the assembly code can be found at an offset ``0x452b71`` in 1.00a.)

This code fetches the operating system's time, converts it to Unix time based on the Unix epoch, and returns this 32-bit Unix timestamp.

### Overflow
[hr_minor]

The Unix ``time32_t`` data type that represents a point in time is a [hl2]32-bit signed integer[/hl2]. A signed 32-bit time value covers about 68 years before and after the Unix epoch (Jan 1st, 1970): the minimum date is Friday 1901-12-13, and the maximum date is Tuesday 2038-01-19. One second after the 19th of January 2038, 03:14:07 UTC, ``time32_t`` overflows. This issue is also known as [hl2]the Year 2038 Problem[/hl2]. 

[hl2]When ``time32_t`` overflows, the signs "flips", meaning that the time ``time32_t`` actually represents is now in the year 1901[/hl2]. Below is a table showing the correct time along with the bugged time.

|       Actual time       |        Unix time         |            Bugged time             |
| :---------------------: | :----------------------: | :--------------------------------: |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:05 UTC | 2147483645 (0x7FFFFFFD)  |      2038-01-19 03:14:05 UTC       |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:06 UTC | 2147483646 (0x7FFFFFFE)  |      2038-01-19 03:14:06 UTC       |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:07 UTC | 2147483647 (0x7FFFFFFF)  |      2038-01-19 03:14:07 UTC       |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:08 UTC | -2147483648 (0x80000000) | [hl1]1901-12-13 20:45:52 UTC[/hl1] |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:09 UTC | -2147483647 (0x80000001) | [hl1]1901-12-13 20:45:53 UTC[/hl1] |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:10 UTC | -2147483646 (0x80000002) | [hl1]1901-12-13 20:45:54 UTC[/hl1] |

[br]

For the first ``2^31 - 1`` values of unix time, the value is displayed correctly. When it surpasses ``2^31 - 1``, the integer overflows and wraps around to a negative value.

### The Crash
[hr_minor]

There are four parts in the code where ``time32_t`` is used (For technical readers, their offsets can be found at ``0x4236f0``, ``0x421fa0``, ``0x433570``, ``0x41a200`` in 1.00a.). However, for simplicity we will only focus on one part. 

Consider the following code, which is run when saving a replay (stage practice, extra credit clear):

[code]void FormatString(char *buffer)
{
    __time32_t t;
    struct tm *tm_info;

    // Get current time as 32-bit time_t
    __time32(&t);

    // Convert to local time structure
    tm_info = _localtime(&t);

    // Format the string in some way
    format_string(buffer, tm_info);
}
[/code]

(For technical readers, the assembly code can be found at an offset ``0x456938`` in 1.00d.)

As established before, ``t``, would have a negative value. This in itself doesn't crash the system. When ``t`` is passed into  ``_localtime``, it returns ``null`` as its value. When this ``null`` pointer value gets passed into ``format_string``, it eventually leads to a crash. (To be more specific, the crash happens at 0x422848 because the eax register is null and the code attempts to read from a field from the returned struct)

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Since this bug involves a consistent crash at a given time, it is not possible to create a replay that comes from after 2038.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=JrEyIW6fAs]

### [misc]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=vQ89JNPKIo]
+ [cite=8MpPnwPlyX]
+ [cite=KwpO22DkfM]

[buildCategoriesTable]