[title=SA: Slowdown Item Duplication]
# Slowdown Item Duplication
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaC[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The float variable [ins=2, n=2] determines how fast the game runs. Though, [ins=2, n=2] does not simply change the game's FPS - it works through ZUN's ways.

The variable [ins=2, n=2] in SA changes in the following events:
1. Utsuho depletes to 0 HP or the timer reaches 00.00s on her final spell-card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.5``), lasting for 60 frames.
2. Utsuho explodes after her final spell-card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.25``), lasting for 40 frames.
3. Koishi depletes to 0 HP or the timer reaches 00.00s on her final spell-card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.5``), lasting for 60 frames.
4. Koishi explodes after her final spell-card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.25``), lasting for 40 frames.

Doing certain actions when [ins=2, n=2] is not ``1`` results in weird behaviour. This page describes changes around items as a result of this effect.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

During times when [ins=2, n=2] is not ``1`` the following side effects happen.

+ The player spawns more items upon death in multiples of ``7``. The type of item depends on the player's current power level:
    + Less than one life: 1 Full power item, 6 small power items
    + Power between 7.00 and 8.00: 7 big power items
    + Power between 6.00 and 6.99: 6 big power items, 1 small power item
    + Power between 5.00 and 5.99: 5 big power items, 2 small power items
    + Power between 4.00 and 4.99: 4 big power items, 3 small power items
    + Power between 3.00 and 3.99: 3 big power items, 4 small power items
    + Power between 0.00 and 2.99: 2 big power items, 5 small power items

## [why]
[hr_minor]

This bug occurs because [hl2]altering the [ins=2, n=2] variable changes the game's execution speed[/hl2], causing [hl2]certain actions to be processed multiple times within a single frame[/hl2]. This results in unintended effects, such as excessive item generation.

For example, suppose that the value [ins=2, n=2] is set to ``0.25``. This means the game runs ``4`` times slower. The game usually executes the power drop/power loss effects for one frame upon death. However, because the game is ``4`` times slower it means that the game executes it ``4`` times instead of the usual ``1`` time. This means that the player gains 28 items. Note that this happens because the value of [ins=2, n=2] is changed. If the game's Frames Per Second (FPS) were changed through external means, then the same effect does not happen.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

[buildCategoriesTable]