[title=PCB: Dialogue Pause Desync]  
# Dialogue Pause Desync
  
[hr_major]  
## [specs]  
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00a[/unknown] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [unknown]Hard[/unknown] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes] - [yes]Phantasm[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]SakuyaA[/yes] - [yes]SakuyaB[/yes]


## [what]
[hr_minor]

By pausing during dialogue in-game, this may result in a desync. The desync may not be noticeable until (very) late into the boss.  

## [how]
[hr_minor]

The desync is caused by holding ``Z`` while the game is exiting out of the pause menu. In particular, the player commonly holds ``Z`` when pressing on the "Resume to game" option in the pause menu.


## [why]
[hr_minor]

This has to do with how the game handles its button events.
In the games EoSD, PCB and IN, the **button events are still registered while paused**. This is not the case in modern games.

This can be visualised with the tool [a=https://www.shrinemaiden.org/forum/index.php?topic=16024.0]thinput[/a], which is a tool that views the player input when playing live or when watching a replay.

+ If a replay from **one of the games EoSD/PCB/IN** is played with the tool thinput active, and the game is paused, then **thinput should show that no buttons are being pressed**.
+ If a replay from **a game other than EoSD/PCB/IN** is played with the tool thinput active, and the game is paused, then **thinput should show that some of the buttons are being pressed**.


### Button events
[hr_minor]

There are three button events:
1. Key is pressed 
2. Key is held
3. Key is released

Here are some actions that are done when a **key is held**:
+ Player shooting
+ Player bombing
+ Player moving
+ Skipping through dialogue (by using ``Ctrl`` button)

Here is an action that is done when a **key is pressed**
+ **Skipping through dialogue (by using ``Z`` button)**


### Live playthrough
[hr_minor]

Consider the following table of a player pausing mid-game during dialogue:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Global timer</th>
    <th>1</th>
    <th>2</th>
    <th>3</th>
    <th>4</th>
    <th>5</th>
    <th class='highlight'>6</th>
    <th class='highlight'>7</th>
    <th class='highlight'>8</th>
    <th class='highlight'>9</th>
    <th>10</th>
    <th>11</th>
    <th>12</th>
    <th>13</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>In-game timer</td>
    <td>1</td>
    <td>2</td>
    <td>3</td>
    <td>4</td>
    <td>5</td>
    <td class='highlight'>5</td>
    <td class='highlight'>5</td>
    <td class='highlight'>5</td>
    <td class='highlight'>5</td>
    <td>6</td>
    <td>7</td>
    <td>8</td>
    <td>9</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Is Z button held?</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td class='highlight'>❌</td>
    <td class='highlight'>❌</td>
    <td class='highlight'>✔️</td>
    <td class='highlight'>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
[br] The ``Global timer`` is a value that increases by ``1`` every frame.
The ``In-game timer`` is a value that increases by ``1`` every frame unless the game is paused.
The ``Is Z button held?`` is a value that is either True (marked with ✔️) or False (marked with ❌).

The four highlighted columns indicate that the game is **paused**. The game is paused in the interval ``[6, 9]``


When skipping through dialogue by pressing the ``Z`` button, The ``Z`` key **must be pressed**. This means that one frame before ``Z`` is "✔️", ``Z`` must be "❌". for it to be a ``Z`` *press*.
When the ``Global timer`` is equal to ``10``, the game is no longer paused. The game then checks if ``Z`` is pressed. For this, the game checks the following two conditions:
1. ``Is Z button held?`` = ✔️ on ``Global timer`` = ``10``;
2. ``Is Z button held?`` = ❌ on ``Global timer`` = ``9``.

The second condition is not met, **so** ``Z`` **is not pressed**. This means that **the dialogue is not skipped while playing the game yourself**.

### Replay mode
[hr_minor]

Consider the same table from before:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Global timer</th>
    <th>1</th>
    <th>2</th>
    <th>3</th>
    <th>4</th>
    <th>5</th>
    <th class='invisible'>6</th>
    <th class='invisible'>7</th>
    <th class='invisible'>8</th>
    <th class='invisible'>9</th>
    <th>10</th>
    <th>11</th>
    <th>12</th>
    <th>13</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>In-game timer</td>
    <td>1</td>
    <td>2</td>
    <td>3</td>
    <td>4</td>
    <td>5</td>
    <td class='invisible'>5</td>
    <td class='invisible'>5</td>
    <td class='invisible'>5</td>
    <td class='invisible'>5</td>
    <td>6</td>
    <td>7</td>
    <td>8</td>
    <td>9</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Is Z button held?</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td class='invisible'>❌</td>
    <td class='invisible'>❌</td>
    <td class='invisible'>✔️</td>
    <td class='invisible'>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
[br] The four previously highlighted columns **are left out** intentionally. When watching a replay, the game does not take into account the button presses while pausing. Because of this, we don't look at the ``Global timer`` value, but we instead look at the value of ``In-game timer``.


When the ``In-game timer`` is equal to ``6``, the game is no longer paused. The game then checks if ``Z`` is pressed. For this, the game checks the following two conditions:
1. ``Is Z button held?`` = ✔️ on ``In-game timer`` = ``6``;
2. ``Is Z button held?`` = ❌ on ``In-game timer`` = ``5``.

All two conditions are met, **so** ``Z`` **is pressed**. This means that **the dialogue is skipped while in replay mode**.


### Conclusion
[hr_minor]

In conclusion:
+ ``Z`` **is not pressed** while playing the game on dialogue.
+ ``Z`` **is pressed** while watching the replay on dialogue.

The inputs are the same in both cases, but its effect is different due to the fact ``Z`` must be pressed. This causes the desync glitch.


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]
### [misc]
[hr_minor]

[a=https://youtu.be/kpk2tdsPh0A?t=75]SM64 - Watch for Rolling Rocks - 0.5x A Presses (Commentated)[/a]