[title=FW: Marisa Red-1 Shot Desync]
# Marisa Red-1 Shot Desync
[hr_major]

## [specs]  
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [yes]Spell practice[/yes]  
* **Shottype**: [no]Reimu[/no] - [yes]Marisa[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Marisa's laser can bug out. Her right-most laser has the possibility to deactivate. This is visible by her laser having a weird angle. Only one case of this bug was ever recorded, coincidentally by me.

[img=bugs/th20/6_laser.png, figtitle=A screenshot of Marisa's right-most option being weird, alt=A screenshot of Marisa firing lasers.]

Since the person getting the bug was me, I am able to provide more information. This happened while practicing Stage 5 mid-boss using a custom thcrap patch that only modifies the ECL of st05.ecl and st05mbs.ecl. The bug happened while I was at 4 power: the right-most laser (i.e. 4th option) deactivated both from a visual and a hitbox point of view. I died, and after respawning the right-most laser (now the 3rd option) has an intangible laser (same angle as the 4th option) that is always active. This laser does not deal any damage. Replays are also incompatible with this.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

Marisa's laser(s) rarely bug out when it comes in contact with an enemy. This event happens at random. 

## [why_idk]
[hr_minor]

This is presumed to be caused by the laser length to be uninitialized, which is similar to the [jumpto=#/bugs/th14/marisa-laser]DDC Marisa Laser bug[/jumpto]. More research is needed.

## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]


[buildCategoriesTable]