[title=FW: Player Option Position Desync]
# Player Option Position Desync
[hr_major]

## [specs]  
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [no]Spell practice[/no]  
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

When viewing a replay on stage 2-6, the replay can desync.

[img=bugs/th20/8_desync.png, figtitle=Marisa Blue2 using the option position of Marisa Yellow1, alt=An in-game screenshot of a Marisa shooting bullets.]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

The desync will happen if the player views the nextstage replay while the player has different stones equipped in the main menu.

Let's say I have a replay where I only have the main stone to be Blue2. If I save this replay and replay it starting from any stage the replay will work just fine, even if I start from Stage 1 and let it run to Stage 2/3: it does not desync.

Now let's say I would like to do another credit with another stone, e.g. Yellow1. I then change Blue2 to Yellow1. I then go back to my Blue2 replay, I start from Stage 1, let it enter Stage 2 and the desync happens.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The desync happens because the replay is using the position of the stone you have selected in the main menu if you select stage 1/2 and then let it play to the next stage.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]


[buildCategoriesTable]