[title=EoSD: Persisting Bat State]
# Persisting Bat State
[hr_major]

## [specs]  
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00[/unknown] - [unknown]1.01[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02a[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02b[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02c[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02d[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02e[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02f[/unknown] - [yes]1.02h[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [no]Easy[/no] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Flandre and Remilia can remain in their bat form for a long time. This effect lasts for 50 seconds before the stage progresses.

[img=bugs/th06/11_bats.png, figtitle=Remilia and Flandre staying in their bat form after their final spell-card., alt=Image of Remilia and Flandre being bats.]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

To replicate this, you must [hl2]have a bomb active before timing down the final spell-card of Remilia or Flandre[/hl2]. By bombing, Remilia or Flandre will turn into a bat until the bomb is no longer active. While they are in their bat form, they become immune to any damage source. 

## [why]
[hr_minor]

There are two issues present here. Firstly, the boss remains in her bat state. Secondly, the stage doesn't continue until 50 seconds later. Both are explained in the following sections.

### Bat state
[hr_minor]

During [hl2]any of Flandre's spell-cards[/hl2] and during [hl2]Remilia's final spell-card[/hl2], a special instruction ``update_bat_form`` is run every frame that manages their bat state. Its pseucode representation is as follows:

[code]bat_timer = 0
boss_is_tangible = true

void update_bat_form():
    if enemy_health <= 0:
        return

    if player_bomb_is_active:
        bat_timer = 60
        set_state(BAT_FORM)
        boss_is_tangible = false
        return

    if bat_timer <= 0:
        return

    bat_timer -= 1

    if bat_timer == 0:
        set_state(NORMAL_FORM)
        boss_is_tangible = true
[/code]

+ ``bat_timer`` determines how long Remilia or Flandre stays for in their bat form in frames.
+ ``boss_is_tangible`` determines whether or not the enemy can take damage or not.

If no bomb is used at all, then ``bat_timer`` remains at ``0`` so this function does not execute anything meaningful. However, if there is an active bomb, then the code in the block ``player_bomb_is_active`` is run, turning Flandre/Remilia into a bat. Right after the bomb has expired, Flandre/Remilia remain as bats. Once 60 frames have passed without ``player_bomb_is_active`` being active, Flandre/Remilia return to their normal state.

However, there is one part of the code that the logic above hasn't touched. If ``enemy_health`` is equal or lower to ``0``, then the boss state can no longer update. When timing out any of Flandre's spell-cards except her final spell-card, the ``update_bat_form`` stops running and a direct call to ``set_state(NORMAL_FORM)`` is made. However, when timing out Flandre's or Remilia's final spell-card the ``update_bat_form`` again stops running but no call to ``set_state(NORMAL_FORM)`` is made. This explains why Flandre or Remilia stay in their bat form after their final spell-cards.

### Timing down a final spell-card
[hr_minor]

When timing out a final spell-card, you may have noticed that the boss explodes twice. This is because the boss actually invokes the same code twice due to the way callbacks are handled. A callback function is a function passed into another function as an argument, which is then invoked inside the outer function to complete some kind of routine or action. In particular, we are interested in the following two callbacks: 

1. The ``timer_callback_sub(func)``, which is triggered when the timer reaches 00s.
2. The ``death_callback_sub(func)``, which is triggered when the boss reaches an HP threshold of 0 HP.

If a final spell-card is timed down, first the ``timer_callback_sub`` invokes ``sub_boss_death``, which spawns some particle effect, plays some sounds and sets the boss HP to 0. However, because ``sub_boss_death`` sets the boss HP to 0, it means that ``death_callback_sub`` invokes ``sub_boss_death``. This means that it is repeated twice.

However, when the boss is in her bat form, the ``death_callback_sub`` never gets run. One of the requirements for ``death_callback_sub`` to be run is for ``boss_is_tangible`` to be ``true``, but since the boss is in her bat form, ``boss_is_tangible`` is ``false``. Since ``death_callback_sub`` is never run, the code continues to run the final instructions. For both Remilia and Flandre, the code explicitly states for both to wait for 3000 frames (50 seconds) until the enemy is deleted by the code.

## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=w48b6lSMaU]
+ [replay=1IeG0QPgHY]
+ [replay=uerYL45KYC]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

[buildCategoriesTable]