[title=EoSD: Bomb Pause Desync]
# Bomb Pause Desync
[hr_major]  

## [specs]  
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00[/unknown] - [unknown]1.01[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02a[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02b[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02c[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02d[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02e[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02f[/unknown] - [yes]1.02h[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

By pausing in-game, this may result in a desync. The desync may be noticeable, as the player uses a bomb in the replay while not having used a bomb during gameplay. This desync can happen at any point.  

## [how]
[hr_minor]

The desync is caused by holding the bomb button [key=X] while the game is exiting out of the pause menu and while having at least 1 bomb in stock. In particular, the player commonly holds [key=X] when pressing on the "Resume to game" option in the pause menu.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

This desync comes down to how the game transitions from the pause state back into active gameplay while evaluating button events.

In EoSD, PCB, and IN, input handling does not fully freeze when the game is paused. Instead, the game continues updating the internal key state buffer even while gameplay logic is halted. When unpausing, the game resumes comparing the current key state against the immediately previous recorded state to determine whether a press occurred.

### Input interpretations
[hr_minor]

There exist four input interpretations:
1. Key is held: Active
2. Key is not held: Inactive
3. Key is pressed (Rising edge): Inactive -> Active
4. Key is released (Falling edge): Active -> Inactive

Most common actions are done when a [hl2]key is held[/hl2]. Examples:
+ Player shooting
+ Player moving
+ Skipping through dialogue (by using [key=Ctrl] button)

Some actions are done when a [hl2]key is pressed[/hl2]. Examples:
+ Skipping through dialogue (by using [key=Z] button)
+ [hl2]Player bombing[/hl2]

There are some issues that can arise from when [hl2]key is pressed[/hl2], which is explained below:

### Live playthrough
[hr_minor]

Consider the following table of a player pausing mid-game with at least 1 bomb in stock:

| Global timer      | 1    | 2    | 3    | [hl1]4[/hl1]    | [hl1]5[/hl1]     | [hl1]6[/hl1]     | 7     | 8     |
| ----------------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | --------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ----- | ----- |
| In-game timer     | 1    | 2    | 3    | [hl1]3[/hl1]    | [hl1]3[/hl1]     | [hl1]3[/hl1]     | 4     | 5     |
| Is X button held? | :NO: | :NO: | :NO: | [hl1]:NO:[/hl1] | [hl1]:YES:[/hl1] | [hl1]:YES:[/hl1] | :YES: | :YES: |

The ``Global timer`` is a value that increases by ``1`` every frame.
The ``In-game timer`` is a value that increases by ``1`` every frame unless the game is paused.
The ``Is X button held?`` is a value that is either True (marked with :YES:) or False (marked with :NO:).

The three highlighted columns indicate that the game is [hl2]paused[/hl2] The game is paused in the Global Timer interval ``[4, 6]``

When bombing by using the [key=X] button, The [key=X] key [hl2]must be pressed[/hl2] This means that one frame before [key=X] is ":YES:", [key=X] must be ":NO:". for it to be a [key=X] [hl2]press[/hl2].
When the ``Global timer`` is equal to ``7``, the game is no longer paused. The game then checks if [key=X] is pressed. For this, the game checks the following two conditions:
1. ``Is X button held?`` = :YES: on ``Global timer`` = ``7``;
2. ``Is X button held?`` = :NO: on ``Global timer`` = ``6``.

The second condition is not met, [hl2]so [key=X] is not pressed[/hl2] This means that [hl2]no bomb is used while playing the game yourself[/hl2].

### Replay mode
[hr_minor]

Consider the same table from before:

| Global timer      | 1    | 2    | 3    | [hl1]4[/hl1]    | [hl1]5[/hl1]     | [hl1]6[/hl1]     | 7     | 8     |
| ----------------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | --------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ----- | ----- |
| In-game timer     | 1    | 2    | 3    | [hl1]3[/hl1]    | [hl1]3[/hl1]     | [hl1]3[/hl1]     | 4     | 5     |
| Is X button held? | :NO: | :NO: | :NO: | [hl1]:NO:[/hl1] | [hl1]:YES:[/hl1] | [hl1]:YES:[/hl1] | :YES: | :YES: |

Now, the game does not take into account the three highlighted columns since those inputs have never been saved into the replay.  Because of this, we instead look at the value of ``In-game timer``.

When the ``In-game timer`` is equal to ``4``, the game is no longer paused. The game then checks if [key=X] is pressed. For this, the game checks the following two conditions:
1. ``Is X button held?`` = :YES: on ``In-game timer`` = ``4``;
2. ``Is X button held?`` = :NO: on ``In-game timer`` = ``3``.

All two conditions are met, [hl2]so [key=X] is pressed on ``In-game timer`` = ``4``[/hl2], which can lead to [hl2]a bomb being used only while in replay mode[/hl2].

### Conclusion
[hr_minor]

[box=1000]Holding [key=X] while unpausing does not use a bomb in the live playthrough, but it does use a bomb in its replay mode, causing a desync. In the live playthrough, the [key=X] input is seen as a held state but in the replay mode the [key=X] input is seen as a rising edge. This discrepancy causes the game to handle the bomb logic differently, leading to a desync.[/box]


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=U3eYGQubJY]
+ [replay=rrVAN5I0Ey]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

### [misc]
[hr_minor]

If you believe your replay desynced because of this cause, please [jumpto=#/me/contact]contact me[/jumpto] and I can fix the replay !

[buildCategoriesTable]