[title=DDC: Item Collection Bonus Persisting]
# Item Collection Bonus Persisting
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]SakuyaA[/yes] - [yes]SakuyaB[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

It is possible for the player to [hl2]continuously increase item count[/hl2] for the point of collection bonus [hl2]while not actually activating the bonus[/hl2]. 

## [how]
[hr_minor]

For this bug to happen, the [hl2]player must be at a very precise y-coordinate[/hl2]. The y-coordinates differ per character since Marisa has a lower PoC height. In particular, the PoC heights are as follows:

1. Reimu or Sakuya: ``poc_height = 128``
2. Marisa: ``poc_height = 148``

As such, [hl2]this is mainly feasible to replicate when normalizing the position[/hl2], meaning the player would be aligned with the top/bottom of the screen and only move vertically to ensure the player y-coordinate is exactly equal to the ``poc_height``

[img=bugs/th14/10_height_small.png, figtitle=Two colored lines ressembling the exact height at which this bug takes place in. The lines represent the point of collection height. The blue color is the height for Reimu and Sakuya. The orange color is the height for Marisa., alt=A screenshot depicting the point of collection heights for Reimu, Marisa and Sakuya.] [br]

## [why]
[hr_minor]

To understand this bug we must first understand the two mechanics that make up the Bonus mechanic: 

1. Bonus Timer: Timer that represents the time left before the player obtains the bonus.
2. Bonus Item Count: Counter that keeps track of how many items have been collected for the bonus.

### Bonus Timer
[hr_minor]

The Bonus Timer is a value between 0 and 8 inclusive. This timer represents the time left before the player obtains the bonus. Its default value is 0. The Bonus Timer is set to 8 when it meets [hl2]ALL[/hl2] the following criteria:

1. ``player_height >= poc_height``: the player must be above or at the PoC height.
2. ``player_height != poc_height``: the player must not be at the PoC height.

I wrote the list in this exact way because this is how it is represented in the code (for technical readers, assembly code can be found at offset of ``0x43886a`` in 1.00b). Nonetheless, [hl2]both conditions can be simplified to the following[/hl2]: ``player_height > poc_height``.

The Bonus Timer remains at its maximum value of 8 as long as there is at least one item in the ``AUTO_COLLECT`` state. When an item is in the ``AUTO_COLLECT`` state, it flies straight towards the player. This state can be triggered through means such as bombing or going above the PoC height.

The Bonus Timer decreases by 1 every frame if there are no items in the ``AUTO_COLLECT`` state. When the Bonus Timer reaches 0, the player receives the Bonus.

### Bonus Item Count
[hr_minor]

The Bonus Item Count increases when [hl2]at least[/hl2] one of the following conditions are met:

1. ``player_height >= poc_height``: the player must be above or at the PoC height.
2. ``item_state == AUTO_COLLECT``: the item must be in an autocollect state.

Additionally, the counter only updates if any of the following three items are picked up: small power item, point item, or big power item. When an item is picked up, the counter increments by 1. This counter is reset to 0 when the bonus is triggered as described in the previous section. The player receives a different Score Bonus depending on the Bonus Item Count. 

### The difference
[hr_minor]

It is immediately noticeable that there are [hl2]two differing conditions[/hl2]. The Bonus Timer only starts ticking when ``player_height > poc_height``, but the Bonus Item Count increases when ``player_height >= poc_height``, so the difference between the two statements is ``player_height == poc_height``. When ``player_height == poc_height``, the Bonus Timer remains at 0, but the player can still increase the Bonus Item Count, assuming that all items have ``item_state != AUTO_COLLECT``

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

[buildCategoriesTable]