[title=DDC: Timeouts on Tsukumo Sisters on Extra]
# Timeouts on Tsukumo Sisters on Extra
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [no]Easy[/no] - [no]Normal[/no] - [no]Hard[/no] - [no]Lunatic[/no] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [no]Practice mode[/no] - [yes]Spell practice[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]SakuyaA[/yes] - [yes]SakuyaB[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Timing out certain attacks of the Tsukumo sisters on Extra mode sometimes do not end when the timer hits ``0.00s``.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]As all characters[/hl2], this can be done by timing out the Tsukumos' 1st and 2nd mid-spell playing [hl2]from the start of the Extra stage[/hl2]. By doing this, Yatsuhashi leaves the screen and the spell-card ends when the time hits the ``1.97s`` mark. Benben would still be shooting the bullets around, even though the spell has ended. Killing Benben does not do anything interesting.
[hl2]As all characters[/hl2], this can be done by timing out the Tsukumos' 1st and 2nd mid-spell playing [hl2]from spell practice[/hl2]. By doing this, the spell-card ends when the time hits the ``1.43s`` mark.

However, [hl2]SakuyaA has the ability to slow down enemies[/hl2], including bosses. She can use her knives on one of the bosses. The effects of her are listed below:

[hl2]As SakuyaA[/hl2], this can be done by timing out the Tsukumos' [hl2]mid-non[/hl2] playing [hl2]from the start of the Extra stage[/hl2]. SakuyaA has the ability to slow down timers if enough knives are attached to one of the sisters. SakuyaA has the option to either slowdown Benben or to slowdown Yatsuhashi.
+ If Benben is slowed down, then the timer is slowed down as well. When enough time has passed, Yatsuhashi leaves the screen.
+ If Yatsuhashi is slowed down, then [hl2]the timer is not slowed down[/hl2]. When the timer hits ``0.00s``, Benben leaves the screen. Then, another timer inherited from Yatsuhashi appears.

Similarly, [hl2]SakuyaA[/hl2] can slowdown the mid-spells of the Tsukumos. On both spells playing [hl2]from the start of the Extra stage[/hl2], the following applies:
+ If Benben is slowed down, then the timer is slowed down as well. When enough time has passed, the spell ends.
+ If Yatsuhashi is slowed down, then [hl2]the timer is not slowed down[/hl2]. When the timer hits ``0.00s``, The spell ends.

[hl2]As SakuyaA[/hl2] timing down the Tsukumos' [hl2]mid-spells[/hl2] in [hl2]Spell Practice mode[/hl2] has a different effect. On both spells playing [hl2]in Spell Practice mode[/hl2], the following applies:
+ If Benben is slowed down, then the timer is slowed down as well. When enough time has passed, Yatsuhashi leaves the screen. The spell ends, but Benben is still on-screen. Killing Benben does not do anything interesting.
+ If Yatsuhashi is slowed down, then [hl2]the timer is not slowed down[/hl2]. When the timer hits ``0.00s``, Benben leaves the screen. The spell ends, but Yatsuhashi is still on-screen. Killing Yatsuhashi does not do anything interesting.



## [why_idk]
[hr_minor]

It has something to do with the two boss sharing different code that are both called at a different time.
Research is TBD.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[buildCategoriesTable]