[title=DDC: Shinmyoumaru's 2nd Non-spell Bowl Breaking]
# Shinmyoumaru's 2nd Non-spell Bowl Breaking
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [no]ReimuB[/no] - [no]MarisaA[/no] - [no]MarisaB[/no] - [no]SakuyaA[/no] - [no]SakuyaB[/no]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

It is possible for Shinmyoumaru to fire her fireball bullets despite her not having her bowl.

[img=bugs/th14/9_boss.png, figtitle=Shinmyoumaru firing the wrong type of bullets on her second non-spell: she is firing the bullets that are supposed to be fired when her bowl is intact., alt=A screenshot of Shinmyoumaru firing the bullets she is supposed to fire when her bowl is present.] [br]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This can be achieved by dealing a lot of damage within the first second of Shinmyoumaru's 2nd non-spell starting. This is only feasable as ReimuA, as her bomb deals enough burst damage to achieve this bug.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

To understand why this happens we must look at her ECL code. For convenience, her relevant bits of code have been provided below. The code has been altered slightly for the sake of understanding it. Also, for convenience I have separated this non-spell into two phases for explanation purposes later in this page:
1. Phase 1: the boss fires large fireball bullets.
2. Phase 2: the boss fires small pellet bullets.


[code]void Boss2() {
    [...]
    $I1 = 0;
    @BossCup() async;
    wait(60);
    $I1 = 10;
    @Boss2_at() async;
    [...]
}
[/code]

[code]void BossCup() {
    [...]
    while ($LIFE >= 20000) {
        wait(1);
    }
    $I1 = 0;
    @DestroyBowl();
}
[/code]

[code]void Boss2_at() {
    while ($I1 != 0) {
        @Phase1();
    }
    @Phase2();
}
[/code]

All the aforementioned code is explained in the following section. Also, [hl2]the important instructions will be highlighted[/hl2] !

### Code Explanation
[hr_minor]

+ ``Boss2`` is what Shinmyoumaru is doing currently. 
+ ``BossCup`` spawns Shinmyoumaru's bowl.
+ ``Boss2_at`` is what Shinmyoumaru attacks with. This attack is divided into two phases, Phase1 and Phase2.

The ``async`` keyword indicates that both ``BossCup`` and ``Boss2_at`` are run asynchronously, that is to say that those two subroutines are run simultaneously.

In short, Shinmyoumaru uses the code at ``Boss2`` to spawn her bowl ``BossCup`` and to fire her bullets ``Boss2_at`` at the same time.


### The local variable [ins=1, n=-9984]
[hr_minor]

The game uses local variables (e.g. [ins=1, n=-9985], [ins=1, n=-9984], [ins=1, n=-9983], [ins=1, n=-9982]) for certain patterns. These local variables are inherited by spawned enemies. This means that if ``[ins=1, n=-9984]`` is written to in ``BossCup``, then reading ``[ins=1, n=-9984]`` in ``Boss2_at`` will also change.

Below are two tables describing what happens when playing normally and when reproducing this bug. The tables mention the value of [ins=1, n=-9984] and its current state in the code:

#### Normal routine
[hr_minor]

| [ins=1, n=-9984] |                   State                    |
| :--------------: | :----------------------------------------: |
|        0         |                   Start                    |
|        0         |               BossCup called               |
|        0         |             wait for 60 frames             |
|        10        |           [ins=1, n=-9984] = 10;           |
|        10        |   ``Boss2_at`` called, ``Phase1`` starts   |
|        0         |          [ins=1, n=-9954] < 20000          |
|        0         | ``Boss2_at`` progresses, ``Phase2`` starts |

[br]


#### Bugged routine
[hr_minor]

| [ins=1, n=-9984] |                      State                      |
| :--------------: | :---------------------------------------------: |
|        0         |                      Start                      |
|        0         |                 BossCup called                  |
|        0         |               wait for 60 frames                |
|        0         |            [ins=1, n=-9954] < 20000             |
|        10        |             [ins=1, n=-9984] = 10;              |
|        10        |     ``Boss2_at`` called, ``Phase1`` starts      |
|        10        | ``Boss2_at`` remains in ``Phase1`` indefinitely |

[br]

### Conclusion
[hr_minor]

[box=1000]In summary, this bug occurs because [hl2]a shared local variable[/hl2] controlling Shinmyoumaru's attack phase [hl2]is modified at an unintended time[/hl2] due to [hl2]asynchronous execution[/hl2] between her bowl logic and attack routine. By dealing heavy burst damage early, players can desynchronize the intended routine. This causes her pattern [hl2]to remain stuck[/hl2] in her first phase even after the bowl is destroyed, making her fire the wrong bullets.[/box]

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

[buildCategoriesTable]