[title=LoLK: Reisen Desync]
# Reisen Desync
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Legacy mode[/yes] - [no]Point Device mode[/no] - [no]Practice mode[/no]
* **Shottype**: [no]Reimu[/no] - [no]Marisa[/no] - [no]Sanae[/no] - [yes]Reisen[/yes]


## [what]
[hr_minor]

Very rarely, when starting a replay from either Stage 3, Stage 4, Stage 5 or Stage 6, the replay desyncs. This only happens with Reisen.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This event happens conditionally, meaning this can be replicated consistently. The steps to replicate the desync are as follows:
1. Play as Reisen on Legacy mode.
2. On Stage 2/3/4/5, [hl2]exit the stage with at least 1 shield[/hl2].
3. On the next stage (Stage 3/4/5/6), make sure to not use a bomb. Though, you are allowed to die.
4. Survive until the player is able to [hl2]graze some lasers[/hl2]. 
The replay *might* desynchronise when starting the replay from the stage in which the steps were performed on.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The shields of Reisen provide the following features:
1. Reisen's hitbox grows larger, meaning Reisen is more susceptible to being hit.
2. Reisen's grazebox grows larger, meaning Reisen is able to graze more efficiently.

Reisen's hitbox and grazebox grow larger as Reisen has more shields. This also means that Reisen's hitbox and grazebox reduce in size when Reisen loses shields.

Reisen can lose shields in the following ways:
1. Reisen gets hit, either by an enemy/bullet/laser.
2. Reisen goes through a stage transition.

When Reisen loses her shields in one of the two ways, her hitbox and grazebox for bullets are reduced. However, when Reisen loses her shields through a stage transition, it works differently. Instead, [hl2]Reisen's hitbox and grazebox for lasers are not reset on a stage transition[/hl2]. This is stays true until the player bombs as Reisen, in which case Reisen's hitbox and grazebox for lasers are updated.

Since Reisen retains her hitbox and grazebox for lasers from the previous stage, it means there are two ways for a desync to happen:
1. Reisen gets [hl2]hit by a laser[/hl2] during the non-desynced playback, whereas Reisen does [hl2]not get hit by a laser[/hl2] during the desynced playback.
2. Reach maximum lives and 4/5 bomb pieces. On a chapter, the non-desynced playback ends up getting an additional bomb before the desynced playback does from the chapter bonus. The non-desynced playback has an extra bomb over the desynced playback.
Note that grazing lasers does not change RNG. Furthermore, the influence of score and PIV does not affect RNG as well.


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=HPKdHaqdwC]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=yceEQkZhex]

[buildCategoriesTable]