[title=IN: The 2038 problem]
# The 2038 problem
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00a[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00b[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00c[/unknown] - [yes]1.00d[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes] - [yes]Last Word[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [yes]Spell Practice[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Border Team[/yes] - [yes]Magic Team[/yes] - [yes]Ghost Team[/yes] - [yes]Scarlet Team[/yes] - [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Yukari[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Alice[/yes] - [yes]Youmu[/yes] - [yes]Yuyuko[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Remilia[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

If your operating system's time is after the timestamp 19th of January 2038, 03:14:07 UTC, your game will likely crash.

[img=https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/2038.png, figtitle=Relevant xkcd (https://xkcd.com/607/)., alt=xkcd 607 is shown, describing the issue of the year 2038.]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This happens if your operating system's time is after the timestamp 19th of January 2038, 03:14:07 UTC. [hl2]The crash only happens once finishing a credit[/hl2], whether it is a gameover or a 1cc. Attempting to go to the Results screen crashes the game.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

When saving player data, one of the values needed is the current time. For the game to get your operating system's current time, the following code is run when it needs the current time:

[code]using time32_t = int32_t;

time32_t __time32(time32_t* out)
{
    FILETIME ft;
    GetSystemTimeAsFileTime(&ft);

    // Official Windows way to convert FILETIME -> 64‑bit integer
    ULARGE_INTEGER u;
    u.LowPart  = ft.dwLowDateTime;
    u.HighPart = ft.dwHighDateTime;

    uint64_t filetime = u.QuadPart;

    static const uint64_t EPOCH_DIFF = 116444736000000000ULL;

    uint64_t unixSeconds = (filetime - EPOCH_DIFF) / 10000000ULL;

    // The 2038 overflow happens here !!!
    time32_t result = static_cast<time32_t>(unixSeconds);

    if (out)
        *out = result;

    return result;
}
[/code]

(For technical readers, the assembly code can be found at an offset ``0x4a5ac0`` in 1.00d.)

This code fetches the operating system's time, converts it to Unix time based on the Unix epoch, and returns this 32-bit Unix timestamp.

### Overflow
[hr_minor]

The Unix ``time32_t`` data type that represents a point in time is a [hl2]32-bit signed integer[/hl2]. A signed 32-bit time value covers about 68 years before and after the Unix epoch (Jan 1st, 1970): the minimum date is Friday 1901-12-13, and the maximum date is Tuesday 2038-01-19. One second after the 19th of January 2038, 03:14:07 UTC, ``time32_t`` overflows. This issue is also known as [hl2]the Year 2038 Problem[/hl2]. 

[hl2]When ``time32_t`` overflows, the signs "flips", meaning that the time ``time32_t`` actually represents is now in the year 1901[/hl2]. Below is a table showing the correct time along with the bugged time.

|       Actual time       |        Unix time         |            Bugged time             |
| :---------------------: | :----------------------: | :--------------------------------: |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:05 UTC | 2147483645 (0x7FFFFFFD)  |      2038-01-19 03:14:05 UTC       |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:06 UTC | 2147483646 (0x7FFFFFFE)  |      2038-01-19 03:14:06 UTC       |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:07 UTC | 2147483647 (0x7FFFFFFF)  |      2038-01-19 03:14:07 UTC       |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:08 UTC | -2147483648 (0x80000000) | [hl1]1901-12-13 20:45:52 UTC[/hl1] |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:09 UTC | -2147483647 (0x80000001) | [hl1]1901-12-13 20:45:53 UTC[/hl1] |
| 2038-01-19 03:14:10 UTC | -2147483646 (0x80000002) | [hl1]1901-12-13 20:45:54 UTC[/hl1] |

[br]

For the first ``2^31 - 1`` values of unix time, the value is displayed correctly. When it surpasses ``2^31 - 1``, the integer overflows and wraps around to a negative value.

### The Crash
[hr_minor]

This crash only happens when going to the Result screen. This is because when going to the Results screen, internally the following code is run:

[code]void GetMonthDay(char *buffer)
{
    __time32_t t;
    struct tm *tm_info;

    // Get current time as 32-bit time_t
    __time32(&t);

    // Convert to local time structure
    tm_info = _localtime32(&t);

    // Format the date as "MM/DD"
    _strftime(buffer, 6, "%m/%d", tm_info);
}
[/code]

(For technical readers, the assembly code can be found at an offset ``0x456938`` in 1.00d.)

As established before, ``t``, would have a negative value. This in itself doesn't crash the system. When ``t`` is passed into  ``_localtime32``, it returns ``null`` as its value. When this ``null`` pointer value gets passed into ``_strftime``, it eventually leads to a crash. 

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Since this bug involves a consistent crash at a given time, it is not possible to create a replay that comes from after 2038.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

### [misc]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=vQ89JNPKIo]
+ [cite=8MpPnwPlyX]
+ [cite=KwpO22DkfM]
+ [cite=dp1FOdddRn]

[buildCategoriesTable]