[title=IN: CPU-dependent Desync]
# CPU-dependent Desync
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00a[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00b[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00c[/unknown] - [yes]1.00d[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes] - [yes]Last Word[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [yes]Spell Practice[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Border Team[/yes] - [yes]Magic Team[/yes] - [yes]Ghost Team[/yes] - [yes]Scarlet Team[/yes] - [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Yukari[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Alice[/yes] - [yes]Youmu[/yes] - [yes]Yuyuko[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Remilia[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Replays in Imperishable Night are able to experience a desync that are dependent on the user's CPU.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

Due to the nature of this bug, the bug can occur anywhere in this game.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

In Imperishable Night, some instructions use the RSQRTSS (Reciprocal Square Root Scalar Single-Precision) instruction. In practice, the RSQRTSS instruction estimates the following:

[code]1.0f / sqrtf(x)[/code]

RSQRTSS calculates this in a fast way, i.e. it does not exactly perform ``1.0f / sqrtf(x)`` but instead it uses an approximation method for calculating ``1.0f / sqrtf(x)``. The reason RSQRTSS is used for is because RSQRTSS is faster and less performance-heavy to run. As such, the result from RSQRTSS is an approximation. From the intel specification, they state the following:

[box=1000]Computes an [hl2]approximate reciprocal[/hl2] of the square root of the low single precision floating-point value in the source operand (second operand) stores the single precision floating-point result in the destination operand.[/box]

A small script run by Robert O'Callahan demonstrates the diverging behavior of the RSQRTSS between Intel and AMD CPUs:

[code]Intel Skylake:
out = 3d7ff000, float = 0.062485

On AMD Rome:
out = 3d7ff800, float = 0.062492
[/code]

### Consequence of diverging RSQRTSS behaviour
[hr_minor]

How does this tie back to replays desyncing? The different outputs of RSQRTSS would mean that graphics are rendered slightly differently depending on your CPU. While this usually does not pose a problem, especially for modern Touhou games, it does not apply for Imperishable Night.

In modern Touhou games, pseudo-random events are determined by RNG values. RNG values are numbers that the game uses to determine random events such as random boss movement and graze particle effects. In particular, there are two main RNG values: ``ANM_RNG_SEED`` and ``ECL_RNG_SEED``. They are differentiated as follows
+ ``ANM_RNG_SEED``: provides the randomness factor of how sprites and particles look. These effects have no effect on the gameplay.
+ ``ECL_RNG_SEED``: provides the randomness factor of how bullets and enemies behave.

However, in Imperishable Night the distinction between ``ANM_RNG_SEED`` and ``ECL_RNG_SEED`` is not made. Instead, any instruction that requires randomness uses the same single ``RNG_SEED``. Some of the instructions that update particle effects use RSQRTSS, and some of those particle effects would call for ``RNG_SEED``. This eventually leads to a desync in ``RNG_SEED`` which quickly evolves into a desync.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[no_content]

### [misc]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=fD9r9m1eYJ]
+ [cite=fj2z8KPlTw]

[buildCategoriesTable]