[title=HSiFS: Stage 3 & Stage 5 crashes]
# Stage 3 & Stage 5 crashes
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [no]Easy[/no] - [no]Normal[/no] - [unknown]Hard[/unknown] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: <div id='table-shottype'></div> [table=11111111111111110000]


## [what] 
[hr_minor]

It is possible for the game to crash mid-run. This crash is only known to happen in two places of the game: in Stage 3 and in Stage 5.
In stage 3, the crash may happen after the mid-boss during the four fairies section.
In stage 5, the crash may happen during the laser spam section before the mid-boss.

[img=bugs/th16/2_spam.png, hratio=2, other= ] [br]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

The crashes are triggered as follows:

Stage 3 crash: on Lunatic, the player must have chosen Spring as their subshot, the player must stay in the middle, and enough bullets need to have spawned. When there are enough bullets on-screen, the player should release. If done correctly, the game crashes.
Stage 5 crash: on Lunatic, the player must die at a particular point during the laser section. When the death is well-timed, the game crashes.

It is important to note that during both sections [hl2]there is a lot of action going on[/hl2]. On the Stage 3 crash, there are a lot of sprites that have spawned as a result from having cancelled the bullets. On the Stage 5 crash, a lot of lasers are cancelled at once.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The full explanation of the glitch can be [a=https://gist.github.com/ExpHP/f275e0edc02603580f24a5ba3da952cc#addendum-20201007-reason-for-the-crashes]found here[/a] done by ExpHP. As of writing this, I do not understand much of it. A summary will be made and posted here.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Since the glitch is about a crash, it is not really possible to get a replay from it.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=MZa9LzonQR]

### [misc]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=Kjp0jGf0ml]
