[title=HSiFS: Mai & Satono Solo Spells Issues]
#  Mai & Satono Solo Spells Issues
[hr_major]
## [specs]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [table=11111111111111110000]


## [what] 
[hr_minor]

Both Mai and Satono's 2nd solo spells, [hl2]Star Festival[/hl2] and [hl2]Behind You[/hl2], have issues with their timers. 

[hl2]Star Festival[/hl2] displays a ``30`` second timer. Once the ``30`` seconds are up, the spell is counted as a fail. However, the timer resets and the pattern continues for another 10 seconds. This is different in Spell Practice than in stage practice.
[hl2]In Spell Practice[/hl2], the game removes the bullets and spell background, and the timer is set to 10 seconds.
[hl2]In Stage practice[/hl2] the spell continues for another 10 seconds without any interruptions however the timer displays 30 seconds. It still ends after 10 seconds despite the display.

[hl2]Behind You[/hl2] displays a 40 second timer however the spell times out at 30 seconds. Like Star Festival it is different in stage and spell practice.
[hl2]In Spell Practice[/hl2] the bullets, spell background, and timer disappear once 30 seconds have passed. The pattern continues for another 10 seconds like normal.
[hl2]In Stage practice[/hl2] it continues like normal but the spell bonus is set to ``Failed`` after 30 seconds. The timer continues like normal.

Killing either pattern off after they "timeout" doesn't cause anything special. Although in Spell Practice, both vanish without any effects or sound.


## [how]
[hr_minor]

This happens by timing down [hl2]Star Festival[/hl2] and [hl2]Behind You[/hl2] in Spell Practice or when facing the full boss.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

This has to do with the spaghetti code that ZUN wrote. Code TBA.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]


### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=daGKrYh47s]