[title=WBaWC: Okina's Final Bomb/Release Damage]
# Okina's Final Bomb/Release Damage
[hr_major]
## [specs]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [no]Easy[/no] - [no]Normal[/no] - [no]Hard[/no] - [no]Lunatic[/no] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [no]Practice mode[/no] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [table=00000000000000001111]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]Okina gains a hurtbox during her final spell-card during a bomb or release[/hl2]. This can usually not happen, because Okina is supposed to be immune to bombs and releases.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

Okina can take bomb/release damage by bombing/releasing between any of the following three cases:
1. [hl2]/release before Okina starts her final spell-card[/hl2].
Okina won't take damage for the first 90 frames of the spell-card.
2. Bomb/release 1-59f after Okina starts her final spell-card.
Okina won't take damage for the first 90 frames of the spell-card. Okina can take damage after the 90 frames, [hl2]but she takes heavily reduced damage[/hl2] because a bomb/release was used during the first 60f of the spell-card.
3. [hl2]Bomb/release 60-89f after Okina starts her final spell-card[/hl2].
Okina won't take damage for the first 90 frames of the spell-card. Okina can take damage after the 90 frames.


## [why]
[hr_minor]

The code of Okina's boss-fight is located in a file called ``st07bs.ecl``. During the final spell-card, Okina is given the ``bombShield`` instruction.

The ``bombShield`` instruction makes the parent object (in this case, Okina) invincible when a bomb or release is triggered. Once the bomb/release has ended, the parent object regains its hurtbox.

When the spell is initialised, Okina is given a ``bombShield`` instruction on her final spell-card. This means she would usually regain a hurtbox once the bomb/release has ended. However, there is another instruction that interferes with the ``bombShield`` instruction, which I will call ``flagClear``.

The ``flagClear`` instruction removes flag(s) on the parent object. In the case on Okina's final spell-card, the ``flagClear`` instruction is set to be called 90 frames after the spell has started. In this spell-card, the flags that are cleared are flags that disable the hitbox and hurtbox of Okina.

If the player bombs/releases before the spell-card starts, then the following sequence of events happen:
1. The player uses a bomb/release before the final spell-card.
2. The final spell-card is initialised. The ``bombShield`` instruction is called.
3. 90 frames pass.
4. The flag that disables Okina's hitbox and hurtbox are cleared. This overwrites the ``bombShield`` instruction, giving Okina a hurtbox the player can damage.

But if the game removes the flags that disables the hitbox and hurtbox of Okina 90 frames after the spell is initialised, then how come the player is able to shoot Okina during the first 90 frames of the spell? Well, the answer is very simple: Okina also regains her hitbox and hurtbox before the spell is started ! The extra ``flagClear`` instruction during the final spell-card is redundant, unless the player intents to bomb the final spell-card.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Soon.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

Soon.
