[title=MoF: Corrupt replays]
# Corrupt replays

[hr_major] 
## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaC[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Sometimes, [hl2]one of your replays does not work[/hl2]. The corrupt replays would have one or more of the following features:
+ The game crashes upon loading a stage from the replay menu
+ The game crashes upon a stage transition
+ The game's FPS counter in the bottom right shows an inconsistent value. Its value is usually 0, but it can fluctuate to various values, such as 32 FPS and 144 FPS.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

The following criteria must be met in order to get a corrupt replay:
1. Clear a stage, and save exactly one replay.
2. [hl2]The subsequent replays that are saved are corrupt.[/hl2]

[hl2]The first replay saved is guaranteed to work. The subsequent replays never work perfectly[/hl2]. Contrary to popular belief, the bug is not caused by your operating system or by the slot in which the replay is saved. This essentially means that [hl2]saving multiple replays in MoF is pointless, as those replays are guaranteed to be corrupted[/hl2].

This also means that if the player overwrites the first saved replay, you are in bad luck.



## [why_idk]
[hr_minor]

It is suspected that by saving a replay, the game accesses a different part of the memory it is not supposed to access. The subsequent replays saved are then saved with a corrupted memory.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Any replay saved after the first saved replay suffices, so none are provided in this section.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

