[title=MoF: Stage 4 Desync]
# Stage 4 Desync

[hr_major] 
## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaC[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]Replays of full runs always desync when started from Stage 4[/hl2], typically making it appear as if you failed to clear the stage. This can be prevented by starting the replay from Stage 3 or earlier.

However, the replay desync [hl2]usually happens quite late[/hl2]. For most, the desync happens when the big sunflower fairy spawns that shoots a lot of random popcorn bullets. Albeit rare, the desync can also happen in the section before the big sunflower fairy spawns.

[img=bugs/th10/2_intro_desync.png, hratio=2, other= ]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

Essentially, there is [hl2]a special instruction[/hl2] that allows for enemies to be spawned slightly differently than how enemies are usually spawned. [hl2]I will refer to this instruction as ``ins_270``[/hl2]. In MoF, ``ins_270`` is [hl2]only used in Stage 4[/hl2]. You can tell when ``ins_270`` is used because the enemies that are spawned through ``ins_270`` look like they appear from behind the waterfall.

In Stage 4, there are some sections where ``ins_270`` is used. Below lists all the section where ``ins_270`` is used:
+ Intro chapter (fairies shoot mentos bullets)
+ Second chapter (fairies shoot jellybean bullets on Lunatic)
+ Before second sunflower fairy (fairies shoot mentos bullets)
+ Before mid-boss (fairies shoot blue bullets and drop point items)
+ After first crow chapter (fairies shoot mentos bullets)
+ After chapter listed above (fairies shoot jellybean bullets on Lunatic)

On most of these sections, [hl2]the fairies are spawned on a different place[/hl2] depending on how you watch the replay. The fairies only [hl2]differ in height[/hl2] when they are spawned.


## [why]
[hr_minor]

Because there is a height difference of the fairies when they are spawned, there are some obvious ways this could desync the replay. They will be classified as either [hl2]obvious[/hl2] causes or [hl2]obscure[/hl2].

### Obvious causes of the desync
[hr_minor]

Below lists the obvious causes that could lead to the Stage 4 desync:

1. [hl2]Your player may not kill the fairy in time[/hl2], which causes bullets to be shot that you die to.
2. [hl2]The bullets are shot from a different position[/hl2], which may result in your replay for your player to dodge bullets too early.
3. [hl2]You may ram into the fairy[/hl2].
4. [hl2]You miss collecting an item[/hl2], which means you have too little power/lives from score extends.

These cases always happen by the fairies that are spawned through ``ins_270``.
Based on a selection of replays I have watched (n=10), I have only encountered one desync that is caused by the obvious causes listed above.

### Obscure causes of the desync
[hr_minor]

Below lists the obscure causes that could lead to the Stage 4 desync:

1. [hl2]Some fairies call for RNG[/hl2] (Random Number Generation, i.e. randomness). "But wait, what RNG ?" Some of the fairies spawned through ``ins_270`` call for RNG once when they are moving towards the player. Since there is a height difference of the fairies, sometimes your player may not kill a fairy in time. This causes the fairy to call for RNG when you start from Stage 3, and it causes the fairy to not call for RNG when you start from Stage 4. In the next section I will explain why calls for RNG is an issue.
2. [hl2]Grazing bullets calls for RNG[/hl2] in MoF. Since the fairy position is different, the player may graze more or less bullets. In the next section I will explain why calls for RNG is an issue.

These cases are not visible by eye as a debugger was used to keep track of the stage's RNG.
The desyncs that are caused by what is listed above often happen during sections when an enemy is [hl2]not[/hl2] spawned through ``ins_270``. This has nothing to do with how ``ins_270`` is programmed or anything, but the fairies that are spawned through ``ins_270`` shoot bullets that never use RNG.
Based on a selection of replays I have watched (n=10), I have encountered eight desync that are all caused by the first sunflower fairy shooting popcorn bullets.

#### How does RNG work ?
[hr_minor]

[hl2]RNG is a value that is updated every time it is used. Each time it is updated, its current value is completely different from its previous value[/hl2]. In MoF, the RNG value is called for in various ways. 
For example, let's say there is one enemy that shoots a bullet in a random direction. When the stage is loaded the RNG value is set to ``12345``. Then, when the enemy shoots the bullet, the enemy calls for RNG once by using the value ``12345``. After the bullet has been shot the RNG value is then updated to ``3752``. When the enemy shoots the bullet again, the direction is determined by the value ``3752``. This value is different than ``12345`` so the direction of the bullet is going to be different than how it was previously.

Most noticeable is when RNG is called by enemies when shooting bullets or when the enemy moves around randomly. 
A more subtle of calling for RNG is when bullets are cancelled or when an enemy drops a lot of items. The items spawn in a small ring and they are spawned in a random position. When cancelling bullets, the bullets turn into green items that have a slightly random trajectory when they are first spawning.
An obscure way for calling RNG is when the player grazes bullets. There are small graze particles that are spawned when bullets are grazed. The particles have a random trajectory that is called by RNG.

### How does the ``ins_270`` instruction work ?
[hr_minor]

Whilst [a=https://priw8.github.io/#s=modding/ins]Priw8's website[/a] does have documentation about the game's code, it does not have any about MoF. Despite this, [hl2]I have conducted my own research and I will present everything I know about ``ins_270`` below[/hl2]. 

``ins_270`` is only limited to th10-th12. In MoF, ``ins_270`` is only used in Stage 4. In SA, ``ins_270`` is never used. In UFO, ``ins_270`` is only used in Stage 1 for creating a background sprite that has no effect on the gameplay.

``ins_270`` is very weird. Below are image of the first five fairies of MoF stage 4 being spawned in various stages. [hl2]The stages are all given the same piece of code, but the result is different in each stage[/hl2] !

[img=bugs/th10/2_ins270.png, hratio=2, other= ]

It turns out, [hl2]``ins_270`` is affected by the stage's background scroll ![/hl2] The instruction ``ins_270`` spawns an enemy based on the [hl2]camera scroll[/hl2] and the [hl2]camera position[/hl2], which are based on the stage background scroll.

### Stage background desync
[hr_minor]

As mentioned before, the instruction ``ins_270`` spawns an enemy based on the [hl2]camera scroll[/hl2] and the [hl2]camera position[/hl2], which are based on the stage background scroll. However, the camera scroll and camera position [hl2]are dynamic[/hl2], meaning their values change a bunch throughout the stage. This causes the [hl2]same line of code of ``ins_270`` to spawn enemies at a different position[/hl2] depending on the dynamic background scroll.

For whatever reason, [hl2]the stage's background scroll is loaded slightly differently[/hl2] depending on which stage the replay is started from.
If a replay is started from Stage 4, then the stage background of Stage 4 is loaded [hl2]right as the stage starts[/hl2].
If a replay is started from Stage 3, then the stage background of Stage 4 is loaded [hl2]during the stage transition[/hl2].
The difference in time between the two events above is exactly 29 frames.

### Conclusion
[hr_minor]

[box=1000] The code responsible for spawning some fairies [hl2]spawns the fairies on a different place[/hl2]. The code spawns the fairies based off [hl2]the background scroll[/hl2] of Stage 4. The background scroll is [hl2]loaded differently[/hl2] depending on which stage you start from. The difference in height of the fairies mainly causes [hl2]different RNG[/hl2], which causes the desync.[/box]

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Any replay saved that reaches Stage 4 suffices, so none are provided in this section.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=V1NCHhfu8B]
