[title=MoF: Bullet hitboxes glitch]
# Bullet hitboxes glitch
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaC[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The bullets on [hl2]Kanako's 2nd spell-card[/hl2] and on [hl2]Kananko's 4th spell-card[/hl2] feel larger than what they are.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This is done by facing Kanako regardless of difficulty.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

After the original bullet transforms into a new bullet, the [hl2]new bullet keeps the hitbox of the original bullet[/hl2]. This may result in the new bullet having a smaller, the same or a larger hitbox than the original bullet.

Kanako's 2nd spell-card:
Bullets were originally jellybean bullets but then they transform into rice bullets, which results in the hitbox of the rice bullets to have the same hitbox as the jellybean bullets. The jellybean bullets have a hitbox of 5.0 units. The rice bullets have a hitbox of 4.0 units. This means that the [hl2]transformed rice bullets have a hitbox that is 1.0 units larger[/hl2] than intentional.

Kanako's 4th spell-card:
Bullets were originally fireball bullets but then they transform into arrowhead and into rice bullets, which results the arrowhead and rice bullets to have the same hitbox as the fireball bullets. The fireball bullets have a hitbox of 6.0 units. The arrowhead bullets have a hitbox of 4.0 units. The rice bullets also have a hitbox of 4.0 units. This means that the [hl2]transformed rice and arrowhead bullets have a hitbox that is 2.0 units larger[/hl2] than intentional.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Any replay saved that reaches Kanako suffices, so none are provided in this section.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

Maybe soon.
