[title=TD: Incorrect boss position during spell practice]
# Incorrect boss position during spell practice
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00a[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00b[/unknown] - [yes]1.00c[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no] - [no]Overdrive[/no]
* **Mode**: [no]Main game[/no] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [yes]Spell practice[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes] - [yes]Youmu[/yes]


## [what]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]The boss's initial position in spell practice does not match the boss's position outside of spell practice mode[/hl2]. This happens to the following spell-cards:

1. Yuyuko's second spell-card (5, 6, 7, 8); ``(32 units higher in spell practice)``
2. Yuyuko's third spell-card (9, 10, 11, 12); ``(32 units higher in spell practice)``
3. Seiga's first spell-card (48, 49, 50, 51); ``(32 units higher in spell practice)``
4. Futo's second spell-card (67, 68, 69 ,70); ``(16 units higher in spell practice)``
5. Miko's fifth spell-card (95, 96, 97, 98); ``(16 units lower in spell practice)``
6. Miko's sixth spell-card (99, 100, 101, 102); ``(16 units lower in spell practice) ``
7. Miko's seventh spell-card (103, 104, 105, 106). ``(56 units higher in spell practice)``

The numbers in parentheses represent the spell IDs.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This is done by going to the boss's spell on any difficulty in Spell Practice. The boss automatically [hl2]skips over some instructions[/hl2] it would otherwise do outside of spell practice. The boss may therefore not move or have a wrong movement limit.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The reason why the boss has an incorrect position varies from spell to spell.

In the following sections some visuals will be provided of modified in-game screenshots.
The blue box represents the movement limit of the boss [hl2]outside[/hl2] Spell Practice mode. The blue bullet represents the boss's position [hl2]outside[/hl2] Spell Practice mode. 
The red box represents the movement limit of the boss [hl2]inside[/hl2] Spell Practice mode. The red bullet represents the boss's position [hl2]inside[/hl2] Spell Practice mode.

Furthermore, the [a=https://priw8.github.io/#b=ecl-tutorial/&p=11]coordinate system in Touhou[/a] doesn't use the normal [a=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cartesian_coordinate_system]Cartesian coordinate system[/a]. Instead, the [hl2]y-coordinate increases if you go downward[/hl2] and the [hl2]y-coordinate decreases if you go upward[/hl2].

### Yuyuko's second spell-card (5, 6, 7, 8)
[hr_minor]

In spell practice, Yuyuko has a y-range of ``[96, 160]``. She is programmed to move to ``y = 192``. ``y = 192`` is outside the range of ``[96, 160]`` so she can only move to ``y = 160``.
Outside spell practice, Yuyuko has a y-range of ``[32, 224]`` She is programmed to move to ``y = 192``. ``y = 192`` is inside the range of ``[32, 224]`` so she moves to ``y = 192``.

[img=bugs/th13/0_sp1.png, hratio=2, other= ]

### Yuyuko's third spell-card (9, 10, 11, 12)
[hr_minor]

In spell practice, Yuyuko has a y-range of ``[96, 160]``. She is programmed to move to ``y = 192``. ``y = 192`` is outside the range of ``[96, 160]`` so she can only move to ``y = 160``.
Outside spell practice, Yuyuko has a y-range of ``[32, 224]`` She is programmed to move to ``y = 192``. ``y = 192`` is inside the range of ``[32, 224]`` so she moves to ``y = 192``.

[img=bugs/th13/0_sp2.png, hratio=2, other= ]

### Seiga's first spell-card (48, 49, 50, 51)
[hr_minor]

In spell practice, Seiga has a y-range of ``[96, 160]``. She is programmed to move to ``y = 96``. ``y = 96`` is inside the range of ``[96, 160]`` so she moves to ``y = 96``.
Outside spell practice, Seiga has a y-range of ``[128, 192]`` She is programmed to move to ``y = 96``. ``y = 96`` is outside the range of ``[128, 192]`` so she can only move to ``y = 128``.

[img=bugs/th13/0_sp3.png, hratio=2, other= ]

Though, it is barely noticable that she spawns on a different height. This is because the movement limit of Seiga is changed once she starts moving. 

### Futo's second spell-card (67, 68, 69 ,70)
[hr_minor]

In spell practice, Futo has a y-range of ``[96, 160]``. She is programmed to move to ``y = 96``. ``y = 96`` is inside the range of ``[96, 160]`` so she moves to ``y = 96``.
Outside spell practice, Futo has a y-range of ``[112, 144]`` She is programmed to move to ``y = 96``. ``y = 96`` is outside the range of ``[112, 144]`` so she can only move to ``y = 112``.

[img=bugs/th13/0_sp4.png, hratio=2, other= ]

Though, it is barely noticable that she spawns on a different height. This is because the movement limit of Futo is changed once she starts moving.

### Miko's fifth spell-card (95, 96, 97, 98)
[hr_minor]

In spell practice, Miko moves to ``y = 144``. An instruction that tells her to move to ``y = 128`` is skipped.
Outside spell practice, Miko goes to ``y = 128``.

[img=bugs/th13/0_sp5.png, hratio=2, other= ]

### Miko's sixth spell-card (99, 100, 101, 102)
[hr_minor]

In spell practice, Miko moves to ``y = 144``. An instruction that tells her to move to ``y = 128`` is skipped.
Outside spell practice, Miko goes to ``y = 128``.

[img=bugs/th13/0_sp6.png, hratio=2, other= ]

### Miko's seventh spell-card (103, 104, 105, 106)
[hr_minor]

In spell practice, Miko moves to ``y = 144``. An instruction that tells her to move to ``y = 200`` is skipped.
Outside spell practice, Miko goes to ``y = 200``.

[img=bugs/th13/0_sp7.png, hratio=2, other= ]

In this case, Miko does not have a movement limit outside of spell practice, so there is no blue box.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Soon

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

Soon.

