[title=TD: Misalignment of timer]
# Misalignment of timer
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00a[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00b[/unknown] - [yes]1.00c[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes] - [no]Overdrive[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes] - [yes]Youmu[/yes]

## [what] 
[hr_minor]

Sometimes, the timer is misaligned. The second digit of the timer becomes misaligned.

[img=bugs/th13/1_misalignment.png, figtitle=TITLETOBEADDED, alt=ALTTOBEADDED, other= ]

The timer functions as normal. The timer fixes itself once the current attack has ended.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]The misalignment is caused conditionally[/hl2]. The steps to replicate it are described below.

1. Start a credit for Easy/Normal/Hard/Lunatic/Extra;
2. [hl2]Reach a bomb counter of 8, and reach a bomb piece counter of 6 or 7[/hl2];
3. [hl2]On a non-spell, reach a bomb counter of 9[/hl2];
4. The timer is now bugged and everything except for the first second digit goes downwards.

Now, it is possible to reach a bomb counter of 9. The game only displays that the player has 8 bombs, [hl2]but the player can in fact have 9 bombs[/hl2].
Reaching a bomb counter of 9 is possible when starting a credit, including when starting a credit on Extra mode. It is not possible to reach 9 bombs in Practice mode, so this bug cannot be triggered in practice mode unless a tool is used.

## [why_idk]
[hr_minor]

Honestly, this does not make any sense to me. lol

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]

