[title=TD: Slowdown Item Duplication]
# Slowdown Item Duplication
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes] - [yes]1.00c[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes] - [no]Overdrive[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes] - [yes]Youmu[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The float variable [ins=2, n=2] determines how fast the game runs. Though, [ins=2, n=2] does not simply change the game's FPS - it works through ZUN's ways.

The variable [ins=2, n=2] in TD changes in the following events:
1. Outside of Spell practice mode, Seiga depletes to 0 HP or the timer reaches 00.00s on her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.5``), lasting for 30 frames.
2. In Spell practice mode, Seiga depletes to 0 HP on her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.5``), lasting for 30 frames.
3. Outside of Spell practice mode, Futo depletes to 0 HP or the timer reaches 00.00s on her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.5``), lasting for 30 frames.
4. On Spell practice mode, Futo depletes to 0 HP on her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.5``), lasting for 30 frames.
5. Outside of Spell practice mode, Miko depletes to 0 HP or the timer reaches 00.00s on her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.5``), lasting for 60 frames.
6. Both inside and outside Spell practice mode, Miko explodes after her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.25``), lasting for 30 frames.
7. Outside of Spell practice mode, Mamizou depletes to 0 HP or the timer reaches 00.00s on her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.5``), lasting for 60 frames.
8. Both inside and outside Spell practice mode, Mamizou explodes after her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.25``), lasting for 30 frames.

Doing certain actions when [ins=2, n=2] is not ``1`` results in weird behaviour. This page describes changes around items as a result of this effect.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

During times when [ins=2, n=2] is not ``1`` the following side effects happen.

+ The player loses more power upon death in multiples of ``50``;
+ The player spawns more power items upon death in multiples of ``7``;
+ The player spawns more grey spirits upon death in multiples of ``1``;

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Suppose that the value [ins=2, n=2] is set to ``0.25``. This means the game runs ``4`` times slower. The game usually executes the power drop/power loss effects for one frame upon death. However, because the game is ``4`` times slower it means that the game executes it ``4`` times instead of the usual ``1`` time. This means that the player ends up losing 200 power but gains 28 power. Note that this happens because the value of [ins=2, n=2] is changed. If the game's Frames Per Second (FPS) were changed through external means, then the same effect does not happen.



[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]
