[title=TD: Yoshika Revival Bug]
# Yoshika Revival Bug
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes] - [yes]1.00c[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no] - [no]Overdrive[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes] - [yes]Youmu[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Sometimes when Yoshika is dead, she will not be revived by Seiga: Seiga continues to shoot bullets as if Yoshika is still alive. This behaviour only happens on the first two spell cards of Seiga regardless of difficulty. Additionally, this behaviour is most commonly encountered in practice mode (especially using practice tools), but it is also possible to encounter this issue in a real run.

[img=bugs/th13/3_seiga.jpg, figtitle=Seiga on her second spell. She keeps firing bullets despite Yoshika being dead., alt=Seiga fighting Youmu while Yoshika is dead]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

While the cause of this bug is the same on both the first spell-card and second spell-card, the set-ups are slightly different:

### Spell 1
[hr_minor]

1. On this stage, [hl2]reset while Yoshika is alive[/hl2] on any of the following sections:
    * 240 frames after Seiga's [hl2]first spell[/hl2] started.
    * 160 frames after Seiga's [hl2]second spell[/hl2] started.
    * During Seiga's [hl2]third non-spell[/hl2] started.
    * 160 frames after Seiga's [hl2]third spell[/hl2] started.
2. Then reset the stage by doing Esc + R. [hl2]DO NOT restart the stage from the main menu[/hl2], but do it from the pause menu instead.
3. Reach Seiga's first spell and [hl2]kill Yoshika within the first 240 frames[/hl2] of this spell-card.

Note that this bug works with replays too. This means that if you have a functional Stage 4 replay that finishes Seiga's first spell within 240 frames, it's possible to encounter this bug when you restart the stage from the pause menu. By restarting, [hl2]the replay desyncs[/hl2] on Seiga's first spell, but this can easily be fixed by going back to the main menu and replaying the replay.

### Spell 2
[hr_minor]

1. On Seiga's first spell, finish the spell-card [hl2]while Yoshika is still alive[/hl2].
2. Within the first 160 frames of Seiga's second spell, kill Yoshika.

Unlike the bug with the first spell-card, this bug does not involve resetting the stage, meaning you can have a full game replay that encounters this issue.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

### Global variables
[hr_minor]


The game uses global variables (e.g. [ins=1, n=-9926], [ins=1, n=-9925], [ins=1, n=-9924], [ins=1, n=-9923]) for certain patterns. When a stage is loaded, every global variable's value is set to 0. Here's an example of how the initialisation would look for every global integer variable:

[code]GI0 = 0;
GI1 = 0;
GI2 = 0;
GI3 = 0;
[/code]

This global variable initialisation is done every time [hl2]a new stage[/hl2] is loaded into the memory, which is when you load a stage through either [hl2]a stage transition[/hl2] or from [hl2]the main menu[/hl2]. Note that this initialisation is not done when you reload the stage by e.g. Esc + R. For our interest, this issue is related to how global variable [ins=1, n=-9925] is accessed and written to by the game's code.

In the context of this bug, only the global variable [ins=1, n=-9925] is used. This global variable [ins=1, n=-9925] can have two values in this stage:
1. ``[ins=1, n=-9925] = 0``, which is the state when [hl2]Yoshika is dead[/hl2] on attacks Spell 1, Spell 2, Non-spell 3, and Spell 3
2. ``[ins=1, n=-9925] = 1``, which is the state when [hl2]Yoshika is alive[/hl2] on attacks Spell 1, Spell 2, Non-spell 3, and Spell 3

This variable is used by Seiga, who will proceed to do a different action depending on the attack the value of [ins=1, n=-9925] was changed on. For example, when ``[ins=1, n=-9925] = 0`` on the third non-spell, Seiga shoots more knives at the player, or when ``[ins=1, n=-9925] = 0`` on the first spell, Seiga will resurrect Yoshika.

[img=bugs/th13/3_seiga_n3_gi1_is_0.png, figtitle=Third non-spell attack where GI1 = 1, meaning that Yoshika is alive., alt=Seiga fighting Youmu while Yoshika is alive]
[br]
[img=bugs/th13/3_seiga_n3_gi1_is_1.png, figtitle=Third non-spell attack where GI1 = 0, meaning that Yoshika is dead., alt=Seiga fighting Youmu while Yoshika is dead]

### Accessing the global variable ``[ins=1, n=-9925]``
[hr_minor]

In this stage, only [hl2]Yoshika is able to write[/hl2] to ``[ins=1, n=-9925]``. On the other hand, Seiga reads ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` and does certain actions depending on its value. The next section explains how ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` is accessed on the second non-spell and second spell-card using ECL code.

Below the following subroutines are denoted:
+ ``Boss2`` being Seiga's second non-spell.
+ ``BossMiyako2`` being Yoshika, which is called right as ``Boss2`` is called. 
+ ``BossMiyako2Dead`` being Yoshika's death subroutine, i.e. this gets called when Yoshika dies on the second non-spell
+ ``BossCard2`` being Seiga's second spell-card
+ ``BossMiyakoCard2init`` being Yoshika, which is called right as ``Boss2`` is called. 
+ ``BossMiyakoCard2`` also being Yoshika, but this is called 160 frames after ``BossMiyakoCard2init`` is called. When called, ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` is set to ``1``.
+ ``BossMiyakoCard2Dead`` being Yoshika's death subroutine after ``BossMiyakoCard2`` is called. When called, ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` is set to ``0``.

To get more comfortable with these subroutines, some examples will be provided below with how the order of subroutines executed would look like in various scenarios.

#### Example 1 - Normal
[hr_minor]

Imagine you are fighting against Seiga and you are on her second non-spell and you [hl2]do not kill Yoshika[/hl2]. Once the second spell starts, [hl2]you stop shooting[/hl2]. The order of subroutines executed would be as follows:

[box=1000]Boss2 → BossMiyako2 → BossCard2 → BossMiyakoCard2init → BossMiyakoCard2[/box]

Once ``BossMiyakoCard2`` is called, the value of ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` is set to ``1``. Below is a table that summarises the ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` value per subroutine.

|     Subroutine      | ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` value |
| :-----------------: | :------------------------: |
|        Boss2        |           0 or 1           |
|     BossMiyako2     |           0 or 1           |
|      BossCard2      |           0 or 1           |
| BossMiyakoCard2init |           0 or 1           |
|   BossMiyakoCard2   |             1              |


#### Example 2 - Normal
[hr_minor]

Imagine you are fighting against Seiga and you are on her second non-spell and you [hl2]kill Yoshika[/hl2]. Once the second spell starts, you [hl2]kill Yoshika two times[/hl2]. The order of subroutines executed would be as follows:

[box=1000]Boss2 → BossMiyako2 → BossMiyako2Dead (killed) → BossCard2 → BossMiyakoCard2init → BossMiyakoCard2 → BossMiyakoCard2Dead (killed) → BossMiyakoCard2init (revive 1) → BossMiyakoCard2 → BossMiyakoCard2Dead (killed) → BossMiyakoCard2init (revive 2) → BossMiyakoCard2[/box]

Once ``BossMiyakoCard2`` is called, the value of ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` is set to ``1``. When Yoshika dies, ``BossMiyakoCard2Dead`` is called, and the new value of ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` is ``0``. Note that when Seiga revives Yoshika, Seiga calls for ``BossMiyakoCard2init``. This subroutine then calls for ``BossMiyakoCard2``, which continues the spell-card. In this example, reviving Yoshika is done twice.

Below is a table that summarises the ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` value per subroutine.

|     Subroutine      | ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` value |
| :-----------------: | :------------------------: |
|        Boss2        |           0 or 1           |
|     BossMiyako2     |           0 or 1           |
|   BossMiyako2Dead   |           0 or 1           |
|      BossCard2      |           0 or 1           |
| BossMiyakoCard2init |           0 or 1           |
|   BossMiyakoCard2   |             1              |
| BossMiyakoCard2Dead |             0              |
| BossMiyakoCard2init |             0              |
|   BossMiyakoCard2   |             1              |
| BossMiyakoCard2Dead |             0              |
| BossMiyakoCard2init |             0              |
|   BossMiyakoCard2   |             1              |

#### Example 3 - Bugged
[hr_minor]

Imagine you are fighting against Seiga and you are on her second non-spell and you [hl2]do not kill Yoshika[/hl2]. Once the second spell starts, you [hl2]kill Yoshika within 160 frames of the spell starting[/hl2]. The order of subroutines executed would be as follows:

[box=1000]Boss2 → BossMiyako2 → BossCard2 → BossMiyakoCard2init → [hl2]BossMiyako2Dead[/hl2][/box]

In this example, the subroutines ``BossMiyakoCard2`` and ``BossMiyakoCard2Dead`` are never called because Yoshika was killed before they were able to be called. This means that Yoshika never writes to ``[ins=1, n=-9925]``, meaning [hl2]the behaviour of Seiga depends on an earlier subroutine that set ``[ins=1, n=-9925]``.[/hl2] 

Below is a table that summarises the ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` value per subroutine.

|     Subroutine      | ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` value |
| :-----------------: | :------------------------: |
|        Boss2        |           0 or 1           |
|     BossMiyako2     |           0 or 1           |
|      BossCard2      |           0 or 1           |
| BossMiyakoCard2init |           0 or 1           |
|   BossMiyako2Dead   |           0 or 1           |

For example, if the player ended spell-card 1 with Yoshika dead (so ``[ins=1, n=-9925] = 0``), then Seiga will revive Yoshika in the earlier given example. However, if the player ended spell-card 1 [hl2]with Yoshika alive[/hl2] (so ``[ins=1, n=-9925] = 1``), then [hl2]Seiga will not revive Yoshika[/hl2].


[img=bugs/th13/3_seiga.jpg, figtitle=Seiga on her second spell. Spell 1 ended with Yoshika alive (so GI1 = 1). Yoshika was killed in the first 160 frames of the spell-card starting, meaning the subroutines that usually alter GI1 (BossMiyakoCard2, BossMiyakoCard2Dead) are skipped over so GI1 = 1 remains true. Seiga keeps firing bullets as if Yoshika is alive despite her being dead., alt=Seiga fighting Youmu while Yoshika is dead]
[br]

### Why this issue cannot happen elsewhere
[hr_minor]

While it may seem that more of Seiga's patterns could be affected, this is not the case.

#### Non-spell 1 & Non-spell 2
[hr_minor]

This non-spell does not read or write to ``[ins=1, n=-9925]``, so it never bugs out.

#### Non-spell 3
[hr_minor]

This non-spell does read and write to ``[ins=1, n=-9925]``. However, once the third non-spell ``Boss3`` is called, [hl2]Yoshika's subroutines are immediately called[/hl2] and her death subroutine is immediately overwritten meaning [hl2]there is no window of time provided in which it is possible to achieve this bug[/hl2].

#### Spell-card 3
[hr_minor]

Similarly, this spell has the same logic as spell-cards 1 and 2. However, [hl2]the bug cannot be triggered on this spell because of the death call back on non-spell 3 (``BossMiyako3Dead``) setting ``[ins=1, n=-9925]`` to ``0``. [/hl2] This is unlike the death call backs of non-spell 1 and non-spell 2, which do not change the value of ``[ins=1, n=-9925]``.

### Spell practice mode
[hr_minor]

[hl2]This bug cannot happen on Spell practice mode[/hl2]. This is because when Yoshika is loaded first, [hl2]she does not have a death call back[/hl2]. This behaviour means that she can have negative HP without her dying, meaning the spell-cards work as normal.

### Conclusion
[hr_minor]

[box=1000]
The Yoshika revival bug occurs in [hl2]Seiga's first two spell-cards[/hl2] across every difficulty, [hl2]mostly encountered in stage practice mode[/hl2]. This issue arises from the [hl2]management of global variables and subroutines[/hl2], which can vary based on the [hl2]earlier state of these variables[/hl2] such as restarting the stage. The bug happens when [hl2]when Yoshika is killed within a small timeframe[/hl2] with a [hl2]pre-misconfigured global variable value[/hl2]. This results in [hl2]Seiga not reviving Yoshika[/hl2] and [hl2]continuing to shoot[/hl2] as if Yoshika were still alive. [/box]

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

[replay=GV72LaPtrI]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]


