[title=EoSD: Frame Perfect Attack Skip]
# Frame Perfect Attack Skip
[hr_major]

## [specs]  
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00[/unknown] - [unknown]1.01[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02a[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02b[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02c[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02d[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02e[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02f[/unknown] - [yes]1.02h[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The player must trigger this glitch on a non-spell for it to have any effect. This glitch can be done on all non-spells as well as some spells. Usually, the subsequent spell is skipped but [hl2]in few cases the effect is different[/hl2]:

If done on [hl2]Cirno's second non-spell[/hl2], all her subsequent spells are skipped and the fight ends.
If done on [hl2]Meiling's third non-spell[/hl2], all her subsequent spells are skipped and the fight ends.
If done on [hl2]Remilia's fourth non-spell[/hl2], the subsequent spell is skipped, but the final spell-card is not skipped. Instead, [hl2]the player faces the final spell-card "Red Magic", regardless of difficulty[/hl2]. This means it is possible to face Red Magic on Hard and Lunatic mode.

On top of this, it is also possible to do execute this glitch on the spells Meiling's third spell and Cirno's second spell.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

The player must end the attack exactly during the last frame of the attack, meaning it is a frame-perfect skip. This only works on attacks where the attack is a non-spell or Meiling's third spell or Cirno's second spell.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

During a bossfight the player can go from one boss attack to another boss attack through different ways. Those different ways are by [hl2]attacking[/hl2] or by [hl2]timing out[/hl2] the pattern. In either case, the boss calls for a [hl2]callback function[/hl2].

### Callback functions
[hr_minor]

A callback function is a function passed into another function as an argument, which is then invoked inside the outer function to complete some kind of routine or action.

Almost all bosses in EoSD use three different types of callback functions that are all relevant to this glitch:

1. The ``life_callback_sub(func)``, which is triggered when the boss reaches a pre-determined HP threshold,
2. The ``timer_callback_sub(func)``, which is triggered when the timer reaches 00s.
3. The ``death_callback_sub(func)``, which is triggered when the boss reaches an HP threshold of 0 HP.

All three callback functions take a subroutine ``func`` as an argument. Once the condition of the callback function is met, then the game jumps to the function ``func``.

For example, if Remilia's first non-spell is timed out, the ``timer_callback_sub`` is called. If enough damage has been dealt to Remilia's first non-spell, the ``life_callback_sub`` is called. If I capture Remilia's first spell-card, her ``death_callback_sub`` is called since she reaches 0 HP.

### Example
[hr_minor]

Below is a real example of the code of Rumia's first non-spell and Rumia's first spell-card. Any code that doesn't contain the three above mentioned callback functions is removed for simplicity.

+ ``sub11`` - Rumia's 1st non-spell
+ ``sub16`` - Rumia's 2nd non-spell 
+ ``sub22`` - Rumia's 1st spell-card


[code]void sub11(int IPAR, float FPAR) {
    [...]
    death_callback_sub(sub16);
    {"NHL"}:  life_callback_threshold(900);
    {"NHL"}:  life_callback_sub(sub22);
    timer_callback_threshold(2100);
    timer_callback_sub(sub22);
    [...]
}[/code]

[code]void sub22(int IPAR, float FPAR) {
    timer_callback_threshold(1500);
}[/code]

We start off on [hl2]Rumia's first non-spell[/hl2] (``sub11``).

Suppose you timeout Rumia's first non-spell. The following happens:
+ If 2100 frames have passed since the start of the non-spell, then Rumia "starts at" ``sub22``, which is her first spell-card. The line ``timer_callback_sub(sub22)`` is triggered. This applies to all difficulties, even though this is a bug. 

Suppose you shoot down Rumia's first non-spell. The following happens:
+ On Easy, if Rumia's HP is 0 HP, then Rumia "starts at" ``sub16``, which is her second non-spell. The line ``death_callback_sub(sub16)`` is called.
+ On Normal/Hard/Lunatic, if Rumia's HP is 900 or less, then Rumia "starts at" ``sub22``, which is her first spell-card. The line ``life_callback_sub(sub22)`` is called.

Now let us see what the code does on [hl2]Rumia's first spell-card[/hl2].

Suppose you timeout Rumia's first spell-card. The following happens:
+ If 1500 frames have passed since the start of the non-spell, then Rumia "starts at" ``sub16``, which is her second non-spell. The line ``timer_callback_sub(sub16)`` is called*.

Suppose you shoot down Rumia's first non-spell. The following happens:
+ If Rumia's HP is 0 HP, then Rumia "starts at" ``sub16``, which is her second non-spell. The line ``death_callback_sub(sub16)`` is called.

### Explanation
[hr_minor]

Though, in the codeblock of ``void sub22``, there are no callback functions to be found, so how does that explain the previous paragraphs ? Since the callback functions aren't overwritten, the game inherits the callback functions from the previous function. In this case, the callback function ``death_callback_sub(sub16)`` is also applied to the subroutine ``void sub22``.

However, the line ``timer_callback_sub(sub22)`` is NOT applied to the subroutine ``void sub22``. Instead, the line ``timer_callback_sub(sub16)`` is applied to the subroutine ``void sub22``.

For an unknown reason in this game, [hl2]if the function ``life_callback_sub`` OR the function ``timer_callback_sub`` is called, the argument of the function ``timer_callback_sub`` is automatically set to be the argument of the function ``death_callback_sub``[/hl2].

### Order of code execution
[hr_minor]

Let's look back at the example on Rumia's first non-spell.

Suppose we were to shoot down Rumia on her first non-spell on Lunatic mode. The following sequence of events happen:

1. The player shoots down her first non-spell until her HP is at 900 HP.
2. The function ``life_callback_sub(sub22)`` is called.
3. Because the function ``life_callback_sub(sub22)`` is called, the function ``timer_callback_sub(sub22)`` sets its new argument to be the argument of  ``death_callback_sub(sub16)``. This means the new timer callback is ``timer_callback_sub(sub16)``.
4. The first spell-card (``sub22``) starts.

Suppose we were to timeout Rumia's first non-spell. The following sequence of events happen:

1. The player times out Rumia's first non-spell.
2. The function ``timer_callback_sub(sub22)`` is called.
3. Because the function ``timer_callback_sub(sub22)`` is called, the function ``timer_callback_sub(sub22)`` sets its new argument to be the argument of  ``death_callback_sub(sub16)``. This means the new timer callback is ``timer_callback_sub(sub16)``.
4. The first spell-card (``sub22``) starts.

Now let's set what happens when the player [hl2]both shoots down and times out[/hl2] Rumia's first non-spell.

1. The player shoots down and times out Rumia's first non-spell on the same frame.
2. Because the function ``life_callback_sub(sub22)`` is called, the function ``timer_callback_sub(sub22)`` sets its new argument to be the argument of  ``death_callback_sub(sub16)``. This means the new timer callback is ``timer_callback_sub(sub16)``.
3. The [hl2]new[/hl2] function ``timer_callback_sub(sub16)`` is called.
4. The [hl2]second non-spell (``sub16``) starts[/hl2].

### Exceptions
[hr_minor]

There are however a couple of weird edge-cases where this does not work. Below are explained why certain skips do not work or lead to different results.

#### Meiling & Cirno
[hr_minor]

In the case of Meiling's third spell and Cirno's second spell, the ``death_callback_sub`` is set to a subroutine after the spells that tells the boss to explode. This means that these spells use the same set-up as what the non-spells use, so the skip is possible on these spells.

#### Patchouli
[hr_minor]

Patchouli's third, fourth and fifth spell-cards [hl2]cannot be skipped[/hl2]. This is because the argument of ``death_callback_sub`` is the same as the ``life_callback_sub`` in her subroutines. While the set-up is the same, the last three spell-cards are setup differently than the other bosses of this game.

#### Remilia
[hr_minor]

Remilia's fourth spell-card [hl2]can be skipped[/hl2], but doing the skip guarantees that the player faces the final spell-card "Red Magic" regardless of difficulty. This is because on the fourth-non-spell the argument of ``death_callback_sub`` is ``sub43``, which is the spell "Red Magic". The reason why you normally do not face "Red Magic" on Hard/Lunatic is because on Remilia's fourth spell-card on Hard/Lunatic the ``death_callback_sub`` [hl2]is overwritten[/hl2] and is given the argument ``sub44``, which is the spell-card "Scarlet Gensokyo".

### Conclusion
[hr_minor]

[box=1000]The Frame Perfect Attack Skip can be triggered on some attacks by doing a [hl2]frame-perfect kill[/hl2] while [hl2]timing out the pattern on[/hl2] the same frame. The reason this is possible is because [hl2]two callbacks are triggered[/hl2] on the same frame. This is [hl2]only possible in EoSD[/hl2] because of how this game handles its callbacks. The timer callback is [hl2]passed a different argument[/hl2] of the death callback [hl2]and the new time callback is executed on the same frame[/hl2].[/box]

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=9CI4n4gGg9]
+ [replay=nNFGaBA32Y]
+ [replay=3HBhLzC6YM]
+ [replay=6dhLlEeiOq]
+ [replay=ZLo1eqDg26]
+ [replay=hsyPP2YX5g]
+ [replay=VPemRVi0Bq]
+ [replay=XuaDwGpKzv]
+ [replay=uPN0pnRh19]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]


<iframe class="fit-image" src="https://clips.twitch.tv/embed?clip=SuaveOilyCookieUWot-4wskJPW_-DwktBum&parent=nylilsa.github.io" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no" height="378" width="620"></iframe>

[br]

<iframe class="fit-image" src="https://clips.twitch.tv/embed?clip=SlickFrigidSnoodDatBoi&parent=nylilsa.github.io" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no" height="378" width="620"></iframe>

[createTable]