[title=ECL - preparing]
## Setting up the environment
As you may know, Touhou games store most data inside of the quite large (compared to ECL) `thxx.dat` files. While you *could* just recompile the entire .dat to test changes every time you make a small change to one file, it gets annoying really quickly. Fortunately, there is a better way. In fact, it's possible to test changes without even restarting the game! This (and actually many other cool things) can be done by using **thcrap**, and below is a simple guide on setting up a small developement environment.

### Setting up a local thcrap repo - the simplified guide
**Note 1**: that this guide only covers creating a local repository that's missing all the things needed to share it through thcrap - but since it'll only be used for testing, it doesn't matter. In order to setup a respository that other people will be able to use, refer to the guide on [the thpatch wiki](https://www.thpatch.net/wiki/Touhou_Patch_Center:Servers#Building_your_own_patch_server).  
**Note 2**: these instructions apply only to the post-restructuring versions of thcrap, so you may have to [update it](https://github.com/thpatch/thcrap/releases) (version 2019-10-05 or later)  
**Note 3**: directory paths are relative to the main thcrap directory (as if it was root)  
1. First of all, you have to download thcrap if you don't have it already (duh).  
2. Now, create a new file named `test.js` in `/config`.
3. Open the file you just created with a text editor of choice (I recommend notepad++, Sublime Text or Visual Studio Code). Paste the following configuration into it and save:  
[code]{
  "console": false,
  "dat_dump": false,
  "patches": [
    {
      "archive": "repos/nmlgc/base_tsa/"
    },
    {
      "archive": "repos/test/"
    }
  ]
}[/code]
4. If you never used thcrap before, run `thcrap_configure.exe` and install the `base_tsa` patch, or any other patch that uses it (literally every patch for the STG games has it - the English translation will work too). After following the instructions there, try running the created shortcut to make sure that everything works. 
5. Now create a new directory named `test` in `/repos` (this name is defined in the test.js file created earlier). You can now create directories for every game in the created directory, from `th06` to `th17` (games like GFW are `th128`, without the dot). At the very least, create one called `th17`.
6. At this point, the patch you made is basically ready to be run. However, since it wasn't created by `thcrap_configure.exe`, there are no shortcuts for it. You could create the shortcuts manually, but the better option is to use the [Universal THCRAP Launcher](https://github.com/thpatch/Universal-THCRAP-Launcher/releases). After downloading, put the contents of the archive into the thcrap folder. Then, you'll be able to easily start any patches - including the one you made. After running the launcher, select `test.js` from the patches, `th17` from the games and click the big `Start Game` banner-button thing. If you did everything correctly, the game should launch.
7. If UTL doesn't work for whatever reason, you can download [this .bat file](content/ecl-tutorial/files/1/Run%20test%20repo.bat), put it in the thcrap root directory and run it (it basically acts as a shortcut)
8. To check whether everything surely works, put [st01.ecl](content/ecl-tutorial/files/1/st01.ecl) I made into the `/repos/test/th17/` directory, and then start stage 1 (from the main menu - restarting from pause menu doesn't reload ECL files). If you're being attacked by a lots of red bullets, congratulations! You did everything correctly.  

## thecl

Now that thcrap is working correctly, it's time to get to the actual tutorial, right?!  
\.\.\.well, *not quite*. You still need to actually get thecl to be able to work with ECL scripts. thecl can be downloaded [here](https://github.com/thpatch/thtk/releases), along with the rest of Touhou Toolkit. Though, as of now, the latest release has some rather nasty bugs, so it's a better idea to go to the ZUNcode discord mentioned in the previous page and grab the latest build from the #thtk-builds channel there.

### actually using thecl
thecl is a command line program. This means that in order to use it, you have to pass parameters to it by using the command prompt. But don't worry, it's very simple. First, put thecl in the `test/th17/` folder, the same one where you put the `st01.ecl` earlier. Now, you could either open the command prompt normally and navigate to the folder which has thecl, or use this trick:  
[img=content/ecl-tutorial/files/1/cmd.gif, hratio=52.8]  
\.\.\.which is definitely easier. So yeah, just do that.  
  
thecl has 3 main functionalities:  
_____________________________  
- Decompiling:  
`thecl -d V -m map.eclm input.ecl output.tecl`  
- Compiling:  
`thecl -c V -m map.eclm input.tecl output.ecl`  
- Generating header files (will be explained later):  
`thecl -h V -m map.eclm input.tecl output.tecl`
_____________________________  
  
- `V` indicates which game the ECL script is from - since we're using [game=17]WBaWC[/game], we'll replace it with `17`. It's worth noting that for the decimal games, such as [tip=Vicious Disease][game=165]VD[/game][/tip], you'd put `165`, and not `16.5`.  
- `-m map.eclmap` tells thecl to use an eclmap, it's optional. What eclmaps are will be discussed on the next page.
- the `.tecl` file extension doesn't have to be used, you can save dumped ECLs as `.txt`. I just find it easier to organize when everything has a separate extension. In this case, `tecl` stands for `thecl ECL` (wow!)  
  
With all of this explained, it's now time to move to the actual tutorial! Yay!  
(continue to the next page)
