[title=Instructions and Subroutines]
[requireEclmap=17]
## Instructions and Subroutines
First of all, we need to talk about how ECL works. The general concept is quite different from Danmakufu: in Danmakufu, there is 1 global script interpreter that has to control all enemies, which can be done by creating a separate task for every enemy. In ECL, every enemy has its own interpreter, and a global interpreter does not exist. This means that without any enemies, no code can be executed. 
   
Let's compare 2 simple functions, one from Danmakufu, and other from ECL: `ObjEnemy_SetLife` and [ins=511,17]. The former comes from Danmakufu and takes 2 parameter: `objID` and `life`. Unsuprisingly, it sets HP of enemy with id `objID` to `life`. The latter needs just 1 parameter, the amount of life to set. Since every enemy runs its own interpreter in ECL, this function sets HP of the enemy that called it. Most ECL functions work in a similar way - they affect only the enemy that called it. But don't worry, there are functions that allow enemies to interact with each other.  
  
Also, you may have noticed that when you hovered over [ins=511,17] with your mouse, the function description appeared - this is something that will happen for every ECL function mentioned in this tutorial. Or well, not just in this tutorial, but on this entire website. 

### Instructions
So far, things like [ins=511,17] were referred to as *functions*, since that's how such things are generally called in programming. However, in ECL, we refer to them as *instructions*. Their official names are generally unknown (there are a few exceptions), and the names used here are mostly what I came up with (and they also happen to be quite different from ZUN's names, since they use `camelCase` instead of `snake_case`). To define instruction names for thecl, *eclmaps* are used. You can acquire the [game=17]WBaWC[/game] eclmap from [here](https://github.com/Priw8/eclmap) (or, if you're using the thecl build from ZUNcode, use these instead: [new format](https://github.com/Priw8/eclmap/tree/new-format)). Of course, you don't have to use this eclmap, but as of time of writing, it's the only actively maintained map for this game. It's also the eclmap used in this tutorial, so you need it to be able to compile examples. You could also use no eclmap, in which case all instructions would be displayed by their numbers such as `ins_511`, but I find names easier to memorize than over 200 numbers. What's really important about instructions is that you **can not** add new ones (unless you know assembly and modify the game itself, or you're ZUN and have the source code).   
  
Calling instructions is done by writing the instruction name followed by parentheses with parameters inside: <instr>[ins=511,17](1000);</instr>. In this case, [ins=511,17] is called with 1 parameter of integer value 1000, which sets caller's hp to 1000. When there are multiple parameters, they are separated by commas, like in <instr>[ins=303,17](0, 25);</instr>. When an instruction takes no parameters, the parentheses are still required, like in <instr>[ins=318,17]();</instr>. You may have noticed that all these calls are followed by a semicolon - the semicolon is required after every instruction call, otherwise thecl will throw an error. It will also throw an error if you call an instruction with not enough parameter, wrong parameter types, or too many parameters.  
  
What are parameter types exactly? In thecl, every value must have a specified type. There are only 3 types in ECL - integer, float and string.
- an integer is a whole number from -2147483648 to 2147483647. 
- a float is a "real" number. Do not use this type for storing very large values, since floats become less accurate at storing values the larger the value.
- a string is is just some text.
  
It is important to know how to actually write the specific types. Let's go over all ways of writing specific value types in thecl:
- int: `10`: an integer in decimal system, I don't think there's much to explain here.
- int: `0x10`: an integer prefixed by `0x` indicates base 16 notation (hexadecimal). So `0x10` is the same as `16`.
- int: `0b1001`: an integer prefixed by `0b` indicates base 2 notation (binary). So `0b1001` is the same as `9`.
- float: `2.5f`: a floating point value ("real" number).
- float: `2f`: a floating point value, same as `2.0f` but takes 2 less keystrokes to write.
- float: `2.0`: a floating point value, same as `2.0f` but takes 1 less keystroke to write.
- float: `2.f`: this is also valid, but looks weird in my opinion.
- [c=red]float: `2.`: not valid.[/c]
- string: `"some text!"`: most basic string, consists of text in double quotes.
- string: `"quote character ->\"<-"`: as you can see, when you want to put a double quote character in a string, it has to be escaped with a backslash `\`. When you want to put a backslash in a string, it has to be escaped with another backslash: `\\`.  

Actually, there is one more way to write floats, and it's made specifically for writing angles:
- `rad(180.0f)`: the same as writing `3.14159... whatever digits are after these.` All valid ways of writing floats from earlier can be put into `rad`.
- `rad(180)`: this is the same as above.  

What's **really** important is that `rad` is not actually a function/instruction/subroutine or anything like that. It can only accept simple integer/float literal values, and trying to put any expressions/variables inside will **not** work.

  
### Subroutines
Instructions are the most basic building blocks of ECL scripts, but they can't do anything on their own - they have to be placed in something that's called a *subroutine*. Subroutines, unlike instructions, are defined in the script. They can also be referred to as subs, as subroutine is quite a long word. All code executed by enemies has to be inside a sub, and an enemy can also execute multiple subs at once. 

So, how do we actually define subs in our scripts? The syntax is basically the same as defining functions in the C programming language, and so are the naming rules:
- sub name is an identifier.
- an identifier in thecl must match the following pattern: `[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z0-9_]*`
- if you don't know regular expressions, this basically means that an identifier has to start with a letter or an underscore `_` and can, but doesn't have to, be followed by more such characters and/or digits.
- this is valid: `myIdentifier`
- this is also valid: `my_identifier`
- also valid: `_myIdentifier_123`
- [c=red]not[/c] valid: `123invalid`  
- An identifier also cannot be the same as any keyword. This means that the following names are NOT allowed:  
`anim`, `ecli`, `sub`, `timeline`, `var`, `int`, `float`, `void`, `inline`, `return`, `goto`, `unless`, `if`, `else`, `do`, `while`, `times`, `switch`, `case`, `default`, `break`, `async`, `global`, `sin`, `cos`, `sqrt`.  
It's fine if the identifier contains a keyword, like `anime`, it just cannot be exactly the same.
- apart from that, identifiers matching pattern `ins_x`, where `x` is an integer number, are also invalid.
  
Anyway, here's an example of a sub definition:  
[code]void mySub() {
    [ins=511,17](1000);
}[/code]  
This defines a sub called `mySub`. `void` is the return type of the sub (more on that later), then comes the name, parameter list (again, more on that later) and then the code, which must be contained within the curly brackets `{}`. The code is executed from top to bottom and it this case, it consists of just 1 instruction: [ins=511,17]... or does it? There are actually 2 more instructions in here: [ins=40,17] at the beginning and [ins=10,17] at the end. They are needed for the sub to execute properly, and thecl adds them automatically, so generally you don't have to worry about them.  
Similary to how subs call instructions, subs can also call other subs. This is done like this:  
[code]void foo() {
	[ins=511,17](1000);
	bar();
}

void bar() {
	[ins=400,17](10f, 20f);
	[ins=23,17](60);
}[/code]  
Here, sub `foo` sets caller's life to 1000, and then calls sub `bar`, which moves the caller to position (10.0f, 20.0f) by using [ins=400,17], and then wait for 60 frames with [ins=23,17]. After sub `bar` finishes execution, `foo` continues executing where it stopped. This is an example of a *call stack* -  when `bar` is called, the game stores where the code execution should continue after `bar` finishes executing. If `bar` was to call another sub, the game would add another value to the call stack, and so on.  
You may have noticed that `bar` is being called before it's declared, but in this case this is not an issue. There are cases where this *would* be an issue though, we will talk about it more when we get to variables and return values.
  
Every enemy must have the so-called *main* call stack, and can (but doesn't have to) have some additional *extra* call stacks. If the main subroutine stack finishes executing, the enemy will spontaneously cease to exist. This means that you always have to make sure that this does not happen. On the other hand, side subroutine stacks can finish execution without anything bad hapenning. Side stacks are created by calling a sub asynchronously, which function similary to tasks in Danmakufu:  
[code]void foo() {
	[ins=511,17](1000);
	bar() async;
}

void bar() {
	[ins=400,17](10f, 20f);
	[ins=23,17](60);
}[/code]  
In this modification of the previous example, `bar` is called asynchronously, which results in creating an extra call stack which executes sub `bar`. However, `bar` won't actually start executing immidiately - it will only start on the next frame. So after the async call, `foo` keeps executing as if nothing happened. **However**, you may have noticed an issue with this code - sub `foo` ends right after calling `bar`. If `foo` was the main call stack, the enemy would spontaneously cease to exist right after the async call, which means that `bar` would never actually execute at all, since when an enemy is deleted all call stacks associated with it are immidiately gone as well. The common solution to this is putting infinite waiting loop at the end of the main call stack sub (loops will be discussed later).  

Sometimes, we may want to make the sub finish executing without it necessairly reaching the end. There are 2 ways of achieving that: using the `return` keyword or the [ins=1,17] instruction.
- the `return` keyword is used similary to instruction calls, except without any parentheses - just `return;`. It's also used to make the sub return values (more on that soon, I promise!). It immidiately finishes the execution of the sub.
- the [ins=1,17], also referred to as a "big return", destroys the call stack it was called in. This means that when used in the main call stack, it will make the enemy spontaneously cease to exist, and by that it will also end all extra call stacks. When used in an extra call stack, it will simply end that particular stack and nothing else. **So if you want to use this to delete the enemy, you have to be in the main call stack.**
  
It's worth mentioning that sub calls can be prefixed with a `@` character, like `@bar();`. In most cases, this doesn't change anything, it exists to allow calling subs that have the same names as instructions (which you generally should avoid doing), since normally if you have a sub called `lifeSet` and you try to call it, thecl will call the [ins=511,17] instruction instead. By using the `@` character, you can make sure that you'll call the sub. Nothing stops you from using `@` at all times though, so you can use it to indicate when you're calling an instruction and when you're calling a sub.  
  
This concludes the basic explanation of instructions and subroutines. Next, we will learn how to use these things to actually spawn enemies.

[/requireEclmap]
