[title=Basic enemy spawning]

## The main subroutine
Previously we learned how subroutines work, but there is 1 subroutine that has a special meaning - the subroutine called `main`. As ZUN himself once stated in an interview:  
> そうそう、起動すると"main"という敵がいるんですよ。C 言語っぽいですね。  

Which translates to something like:  
> At the beginning, there is an enemy called "main". It's a bit like the C programming language.

(yes, I did in fact use google translate)  

\.\.\.actually, a small note. In [game=125]Double Spoiler[/game], that sub is called `Appear` instead of `main`, because ZUN likes being *amazingly* consistent.

When a stage is loaded, the game spawns an enemy at coordinates (0.0f, 0.0f) that starts executing the sub called `main`. If that sub is not found, enemy creation fails and the stage softlocks - there are no enemies, so no ECL code can be executed. For unknown reasons, when there are no enemies, the player is also unable to shoot or focus. It's a good indicator of when the stage has no enemies, though.  
**Every script that's indended to be functional on its own must have a main sub**.  
  
Obviously, `main` shouldn't be used as a regular enemy, since the game always needs at least 1 enemy alive. ZUN uses `main` as the enemy that spawns other enemies, bosses and controls the stage flow, and we will do the same. So, how do we make our `main` invincible and also make sure it never gets deleted? It's actually very simple - every enemy has a set of flags, which are special on/off switches that enable special properties of the enemy. They range from not making the enemy despawn after it goes offscreen to making the enemy act like a bullet (enabling a grazebox). One of the flags happens to make the enemy invincible, invisible, and impossible to be deleted, which is exactly what we need. Flags can be set and removed by [ins=502,17] and [ins=503,17] respectively.  
[code]void main() {
    [ins=502,17](32);
    [ins=23,17](10000);
}[/code]  
You must **always** start the main sub with an instruction that makes the enemy invincible in one way or another. As to what the actual flag values do, refer to [flag table](#s=modding/flags).

## More on flags
While [ins=502,17] and [ins=503,17] only take 1 argument each, they can actually set/clear multiple flags in just 1 call. This is because they work as a *bit mask* - every bit in the number corresponds to a different flag. If you don't know how bits are used to represent a number, I wrote a (short) explanation [here](#s=ecl-tutorial/3b). For example, using value of `48` can be used to set both flag `16` and `32`. Since ECL supports binary notation, you could also write it as `0b110000`.

## Spawning more enemies
Since the `main` enemy has to stay alive, we obviously need a way to create more enemies. We can do so by using the enemy creation instructions - there are multiple ones, but let's focus on the most basic instruction first: [ins=300,17].  

[ins=300,17] takes 6 arguments - the sub which the spawned enemy will be initialized with (main call stack), x and y coordinates of where it will be spawned, amount of life it will start with, [tip=I don&apos;t think property works in recent games]~~score given after the enemy dies~~[/tip], and the item which will be dropped on death (set to 0 for no item). Keep in mind that this particular instruction will make the enemy spawn at coordinates *relative* to the caller, but for spawning with the `main` enemy it doesn't matter, since it's at coordinates (0f, 0f) anyway. For spawning enemies at an absolute position, use [ins=301,17].  
[code]anim {
    "enemy.anm";
}

void main() {
    [ins=502,17](32);
    [ins=23,17](60);
    // setting score to 100 is what ZUN does, even though it doesn't seem to do anything.
    // in ECL, x=0 coordinate is actually the horizontal center of the screen.
    // y=0 is the top of the screen. We will talk about positioning more later.
    [ins=300,17]("MyEnemy", 0f, 128f, 1000, 100, 0);
    [ins=23,17](10000);
}

void MyEnemy() {
    [ins=302,17](2);
    [ins=306,17](0, 0);
    [ins=23,17](10000);
}
[/code]  

Since this is the first code that has any sort of visual effect when you run it in-game, go ahead and use thecl to compile it! Basically what you want to do is create a file called `st01.tecl` in the `th17` directory of the thcrap test repo created earlier, open it with a text editor of choice (please use something better than Windows default notepad though) and paste the script above in it. Make sure that you also have the right ECLMAP in that folder. Then, open the directory in the command line and use the following command to compile the script:  
`thecl -c 17 -m th17.eclm st01.tecl st01.ecl`  
Now, run the test configuration from UTL or by usng the `.bat` file from earlier. If everything works, you should see a nice, blue fairy in the middle of the screen, doing absolutely nothing. Now though, what do some things in this code actually do?  
  
The above code contains something that hasn't been discussed in this tutorial yet - the `anim` statement. It's used to load additational ANM files, apart from the ones loaded by default. ANM files are what contains all sprites and animation data, so if we want to give our newly created enemy a fitting sprite, we have to load `enemy.anm` first. Then, we can use [ins=302,17] to make an enemy select the ANM file to be used. Though as you can see, it's called with value of `2`, despite the fact that there is only 1 file loaded with `anim` - this is because the game loads 2 ANM files automatically before loading anything from `anim`, and these 2 files occupy slots `0` and `1`, which makes the ANMs loaded by us start at `2`. **Note:** in older games (before [game=13]TD[/game]), only 1 ANM is loaded automatically, so the ones from `anim` start at `1`.  

After selecting the ANM, we need to select a script that the enemy will use with either [ins=303,17] or [ins=306,17]. How ANMs work exactly won't be covered in this tutorial, but here are some basics that you need to know:
- ANM files contain 3 things: images themselves, sprite definitions and scripts.
- Images are pretty self explanatory, they are generally spritesheets.
- Sprite definitions define where a sprite is in the spritesheet.
- Scripts can use sprites defined earlier to create static or animated graphics.
- Images and sprite definitions are unaccesible from outside of the ANM itself - this means that without a script that uses it, an image or sprite definition is completely useless.
- Scripts are what you access from ECL scripts. They have no names, just numbers (it's likely that they originally did have names which were lost when ZUN compiled them).

What's also important is that an enemy can use multiple ANM scripts at once - the first parameter of [ins=303,17] and [ins=306,17] corresponds to the slots on which the script will be loaded. If you use a slot that already has something in it, it will be overwritten. And if you want to remove something from a slot, you set the script to `-1`. Anyway\.\.\. as you can see above, [ins=306,17] is called with 2 arguments which are `0` - the first one specified the slot where the script will be loaded, and the second one specified the actual script number. In this case, with `enemy.anm` being selected earlier, script `0` is a small fairy.  

Another thing we have to talk about is the actual difference between [ins=303,17] and [ins=306,17], which is quite significant.
- [ins=303,17] simply sets a script on a given slot - there's nothing more to it.
- [ins=306,17] is a bit more involved, but extremely useful - when used, the enemy will automatically switch scripts when moving in a given direction in a way that makes the graphics reflect the movement. When moving left, it will use script with ID that is larger by 1 than the one provided. Right is +2, diagonal left i+3, diagonal right i+4. This means that a typical enemy will take at least 5 ANM scripts, which will be used for different movement directions. However, if you use a bad script number with this, it will probably result in some nonsense (such as graphics changing to a different enemy type when moving).

At this point, you might be wondering: "how the heck am I supposed to know what script IDs do different enemies have?". This video (though done in [game=16]HSiFS[/game]) should explain everything to you.

[video=https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/205514395566997514/571746807961354244/hsifs_enm.mp4, hratio=72.1]

With this, we know the basics of spawning enemies. However, there is little meaning to their existence if they don't do anything, right? That's why next we will learn how to make them shoot some bullets!


