[title=EoSD: Nightbird on Easy Difficulty]
# Nightbird on Easy Difficulty
[hr_major]

## [specs]  
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00[/unknown] - [unknown]1.01[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02a[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02b[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02c[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02d[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02e[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02f[/unknown] - [yes]1.02h[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [no]Normal[/no] - [no]Hard[/no] - [no]Lunatic[/no] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [no]ReimuB[/no] - [no]MarisaA[/no] - [no]MarisaB[/no]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Usually on Easy difficulty, the player never faces Rumia's spell-card ``Night Sign "Night Bird"``. However, it is possible to face this spell-card on Easy mode.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

The player can encounter ``Night Sign "Night Bird"`` on Easy mode by timing out Rumia's first non-spell.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

During a bossfight the player can go from one boss attack to another boss attack through different ways. Those different ways are by [hl2]attacking[/hl2] or by [hl2]timing out[/hl2] the pattern. In either case, the boss calls for a [hl2]callback function[/hl2].

### Callback functions
[hr_minor]

A callback function is a function passed into another function as an argument, which is then invoked inside the outer function to complete some kind of routine or action.

Almost all bosses in EoSD use three different types of callback functions that are all relevant to this glitch:

1. The ``life_callback_sub(func)``, which is triggered when the boss reaches a pre-determined HP threshold,
2. The ``timer_callback_sub(func)``, which is triggered when the timer reaches 00s.
3. The ``death_callback_sub(func)``, which is triggered when the boss reaches an HP threshold of 0 HP.

All three callback functions take a subroutine ``func`` as an argument. Once the condition of the callback function is met, then the game jumps to the function ``func``.

For example, if Remilia's first non-spell is timed out, the ``timer_callback_sub`` is called. If enough damage has been dealt to Remilia's first non-spell, the ``life_callback_sub`` is called. If I capture Remilia's first spell-card, her ``death_callback_sub`` is called since she reaches 0 HP.

### Rumia's first non-spell
[hr_minor]

On Rumia's first non-spell, her callbacks are set as follows:

1. ``life_callback_sub`` on Easy difficulty: (does not exist) 
2. ``life_callback_sub`` on Normal/Hard/Lunatic difficulty: Rumia's first spell-card, ``Night Sign "Night Bird"``
3. ``timer_callback_sub``: Rumia's first spell-card, ``Night Sign "Night Bird"``
4. ``death_callback_sub``: Rumia's 2nd non-spell

The ``timer_callback_sub`` [hl2]always invokes Rumia's first spell-card[/hl2] as its argument, regardless of the chosen difficulty. This means the player can encounter Rumia's first spell-card by timing out her first non-spell regardless of difficulty.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[buildCategoriesTable]