[title=EoSD: Bomb Despawning Enemies]
# Bomb Despawning Enemies
[hr_major]

## [specs]  
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00[/unknown] - [unknown]1.01[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02a[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02b[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02c[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02d[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02e[/unknown] - [unknown]1.02f[/unknown] - [yes]1.02h[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Using a bomb sometimes causes enemies to despawn. This only applies to enemies coming from the right side of the screen.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

Use a bomb right as an enemy is about to appear from off-screen. This more notably happens when the screen-shaking effect is extremely violent, which is with the shottypes ReimuB and MarisaA.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

To know why this happens, we must first understand what makes an enemy despawn, and what bombing does to the screen.

### Despawning conditions
[hr_minor]

For an enemy to despawn by leaving the screen, exactly two conditions must be fulfilled:
1. The enemy must have been in bounds at least once before: ``has_been_inbounds`` must be true
2. The enemy must currently be out of bounds.

for first, if enemy spawns from off-screen zun doesn't want enemy to immediately despawn upon initialization, so enemy flag is unset until enemy is in bounds

[img=bugs/th06/5_grid.png, figtitle=Screenshot showing the x- and y-coordinates of the game, alt=A screenshot showing the coordinates of the game]

give examples

[code]function is_in_bounds(x, y, width, height):
    if (x + width / 2) < 0:
        return false
    if (x - width / 2) > screenWidth:
        return false
    if (y + height / 2) < 0:
        return false
    if (y - height / 2) > screenHeight:
        return false
    return true
[/code]

### Screenshaking effect
[hr_minor]

The screenshake effect is an effect that modifies the position of the screen as well as the size of the screen. The logic for screenshaking goes as follows:
+ Pick a random number between 0 and 2.
+ Depending on the random number:
    + The screen's [hl2]position moves[/hl2] slightly
    + The screen's [hl2]dimensions decrease[/hl2] slightly
+ This logic is applied independently to both the X and Y axes. 

The second point "The screen's dimensions decrease slightly" is the only part of interest. Below is shown pseudocode of the relevant part of the screenshake effect.


[code]if (random_integer(0, 2) == 0) {
    screenWidth = 384.0
} else {
    screenWidth = 384.0 - screenOffset
}

if (random_integer(0, 2) == 0) {
    screenHeight = 448.0
} else {
    screenHeight = 448.0 - screenOffset
}
[/code]

explain how screenshaking updates the coordinates of playing field

show visual examples of hacked values


screenOffSet is calculated as follows:

[code]screenOffset(timer) = ((endOffset - startOffset) / effectLength) * timer + startOffSet[/code]

This follows the linear equation ``y = mx + b`` with parameters:
+ ``y`` being the output (``screenOffset``)
+ ``m`` being the slope: (``endOffset`` - ``startOffset``) / ``effectLength``
+ ``x`` being the independent variable (``timer``) starting from 0
+ ``b`` being the y-intercept: ``startOffset``

The values of ``effectLength``, ``startOffset``, and ``endOffset`` are hardcoded values that are specific to each character. Below is a table summarising the values for every case.

| Shottype | Bomb Trigger condition | effectLength | startOffset | endOffset |
| -------- | ---------------------- | ------------ | ----------- | --------- |
| ReimuA   | On orb explosion       | 16           | 8           | 0         |
| ReimuB   | First 60 frames        | 60           | 2           | 6         |
|          | After first 60 frames  | 80           | 20          | 0         |
| MarisaA  | First 120 frames       | 120          | 4           | 1         |
| MarisaB  | Frames 60-120          | 60           | 1           | 7         |
|          | After 120 frames       | 200          | 24          | 0         |

It follows that the maximum value of ``screenOffset`` is equal to ``max(startOffset, endOffset)``, which is ``screenOffset = 24`` with MarisaB as shottype.




[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]
