[title=IN: Unintended Last Spell Trigger]
# Unintended Last Spell Trigger
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [unknown]1.00[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00a[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00b[/unknown] - [unknown]1.00c[/unknown] - [yes]1.00d[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no] - [no]Last Word[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell Practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Border Team[/yes] - [yes]Magic Team[/yes] - [yes]Ghost Team[/yes] - [yes]Scarlet Team[/yes] - [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Yukari[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Alice[/yes] - [yes]Youmu[/yes] - [yes]Yuyuko[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Remilia[/yes]


## [what]
[hr_minor]

It is possible to trigger the Last Spell despite not meeting the required Time. It is possible to trigger this on all spell-cards besides on Mokou due to the Time requirement being too low. The game runs normally when the Last Spell is triggered and nothing special happens.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]This mostly happens accidentally and rarely[/hl2]. This bug is easier to replicate on patterns with a higher bullet density in which a lot of bullets are cancelled, meaning it is best done on higher difficulties. There must be a lot of bullets on-screen right before Last Spell is triggered and player must be right below Time threshold.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

It is possible for a player to be just below the Time requirement the attack before the Last Spell. If the player captures the attack before the LS, then the player may have just enough Time to meet the Time requirement. When the attack before the LS is captured, the bullets on-screen are turned into Time items. [hl2]Those Time items take some time to get to the player[/hl2], which is an issue. You want to make sure that once the Time items are all collected, the player is able to do the Last Spell. [wip]

[hl2]The moment at which the game checks if you meet the requirement is done right as you capture the spell before the LS[/hl2].
Game doesn't look at Time you have.
Game looks at Time you have + bullets on-screen.
Bullet on-screen would be cancelled and turned into Time.
If sum >= requirement, then LS is triggered.
However, some bullets are almost off-screen. Those bullets will then turn into Time. That Time is too far off-screen so player doesn't pick it up.
This means it's possible for Time to be below requirement.



[hr_major]
## [links]

### [rpy]

### [vid]

