[title=ISC: Reimu Timeout Glitch]
# Reimu Timeout Glitch
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Seija[/yes]
* **Scenes**: [scenes=143, true, [55]]
* **Main items**: None
* **Sub items**: None

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The boss the scene 8-5 glitches out when the scene is timed out under a certain condition.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

On this scene, [hl2]the boss follows the player horizontally[/hl2]. If the player is to the left of the boss, the boss moves to the left and vice versa. The boss moves at a speed of one unit per frame to either the left or the right. This scene glitches out if the player times out the spell-card when the boss is busy moving to the left.  

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Firstly, the boss has [hl2]no Out of Bounds (OoB) protection[/hl2]. This means that if the boss is off-screen by too much, then the boss despawns.
Secondly, when you timeout a scene the boss moves to the coordinates (-224, -16) (which is the top left), which is off-screen but not quite OoB. The action of the boss moving from its original position to (-224, -16) takes 60 frames. After those 60 frames, there are 10 frames where nothing happens. After those 10 frames, the (now off-screen) boss tells the game to end the scene. This is what happens usually.
However, [hl2]the boss never reset its speed vector[/hl2]. This means that [hl2]the boss retains its speed[/hl2] of one unit per frame, either to the left or right. 
In this scene during those 10 frames where "nothing" happens, Reimu can do one of three things:
1. She can stand still, which happens if you timeout the scene when below Reimu;
2. She can move to the right, which happens if you timeout the scene while you are to the right of her;
3. She can move to the left, which happens if you timeout the scene while you are to the left of her.
In cases 1 and 2, nothing special happens and the scene ends normally. However, in case 3, [hl2]the boss has moved by enough units such that the boss is now considered to be OoB[/hl2]. Since the boss does not have any OoB protection it means that the boss despawns. This means that the boss cannot call the instructions that end the scene, so the scene becomes never-ending.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]


### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[cite=v68mVkO2HA]
