[title=WBaWC: YoumuEagle's Damage Cap]
# YoumuEagle's Damage Cap
[hr_major]
## [specs]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [yes]Spell practice[/yes] - [no]Achievement hall[/no]
* **Shottype**: [table=000000001]


## [what] 
[hr_minor]

YoumuEagle deals less damage compared to YoumuWolf and YoumuOtter. This is especially noticeable when comparing the slashes between various Youmus. Although hard to do, when comparing the unfocussed shot of all Youmus, it is possible for YoumuEagle to deal the same damage as YoumuWolf and YoumuOtter depending on the position, despite YoumuEagle having mode unfocussed shots.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This is simply done by playing as YoumuEagle regardless of difficulty or version.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Consider the following table:

| Spirit | Reimu | Marisa | Youmu |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Wolf | 60 | 160 | 160 |
| Otter | 60 | 160 | 160 |
| Eagle | 60 | 160 | [hl1]60[/hl1] |
[br]

The table displays the [hl2]maximum damage per frame value per character[/hl2]. YoumuWolf can deal up to ``160`` damage per frame. YoumuOtter can deal up to ``160`` damage per frame. [hl2]YoumuEagle can deal up to ``60`` damage per frame[/hl2], which is substantially lower than all the other Youmus.

When looking at the damage of the slashes, it turns out the damage is exactly the same as YoumuOtter's are. The damage per slash is always 100 damage per frame or higher. It means that it was intended that YoumuEagle would deal more than her current 60 damage per frame.

So, [hl2]ZUN wrote `60` instead of `160`[/hl2].

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Any replay of YoumuEagle is valid, so none are provided here.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=ZS7nE2L10d]
