[title=WBaWC: Instant Hyper Deactivation]
# Instant Hyper Deactivation
[hr_major]
## [specs]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficullty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no] - [no]Achievement hall[/no]
* **Shottype**: [table=111111111]


## [what] 
[hr_minor]

It is possible to instantly deactivate a hyper after picking up the 5th token, giving the player 2 or 5 tokens after the text "Extra Beasts Appear !" shows up.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This is done by picking up the 5th token at a precise well-timed moment. In particular, the player must pick up the 5th token on the 9th frame after being hit by a bullet/enemy.


## [why]
[hr_minor]

The reason why this happens is because the game gets confused about the player's state.

In the table below, the relevant player states are shown.

| PLAYER_STATE | Description |
|:------------:|:-----------|
|       0      | Player is respawning from bottom of screen. Cannot control movement of player. |
|       1      | Player can move. Player is able to control the player|
|       2      | Player is dying. Cannot deathbomb. Cannot move, either will respawn or gameovers.|
|       4      | Player is in deathbomb window. Player can deathbomb.|
[br]

For the glitch to be triggered, the player must meet the following conditions at once:
+ The player must have an active hyper;
+ The player must go to PLAYER_STATE ``2``.

Below I will provide a few examples of how your PLAYER\_STATE changes.
Suppose a player is alive. If the player dies, the PLAYER\_STATE graph looks as follows:
``1 → 4 → 2 → 0 → 1``
Suppose a player is alive. If the player dies, but deathbombs, the PLAYER\_STATE graph looks as follows:
``1 → 4 → 1``
Suppose a player is alive. If the player dies, but activates a hyper in the first 8 frames after being hit, the PLAYER\_STATE graph looks as follows:
``1 → 4 → 1``

Even though the deathbomb and death-hyper window in WBaWC is 8 frames long, the PLAYER\_STATE can be in the state ``4`` for a total of 9 frames.

|  Frame count | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | **10** | 11 | 12 |
|:------------:|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|----|----|----|
| PLAYER_STATE | 1 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | **4**  | 2  | 2 |
| Can deathbomb? | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |
| Can death-hyper? | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ✔️ | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |
[br]

The table above shows an example of what the in-game variables would look like. 
On frame ``2``, the player is hit. Then there are 8 frames in which the player can deathbomb or death-hyper. On frame ``11`` and beyond, the player is dying.

On the frame interval ``[2,9]``, if the player picks up a 5th token, the player automatically death-hypers. 
On frame ``11`` and beyond, if the player picks up a 5th token, the player cannot death-hyper. The player then respawns with a hyper active.
On frame ``10``, if the player picks up a 5th token, the player cannot death-hyper.

However, on frame ``10``, the player actually meets the criteria to trigger the glitch:
+ The player has an active hyper, and;
+ The player is going to be in PLAYER_STATE ``2`` the next frame.

Because the two conditions meet, the instant hyper deactivation glitch is triggered, spawning either 2 or 5 tokens after the death.


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]
