[title=WBaWC: Death by Intentional Hyper Break]
# Death by Intentional Hyper Break
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [yes]Spell practice mode[/yes] - [no]Achievement hall[/no]
* **Shottype**: [table=111111111]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]The player instantly dies whilst breaking their hyper[/hl2]. It is not possible to escape the death through death-bombing. 

## [how]
[hr_minor]

There are two conditions the player has to meet. These two conditions must take place on the same frame:
1. The player must be hit.
2. The player must intentionally be breaking their hyper.
Breaking the hyper has a long duration, but only [hl2]the first frame of the manual hyper break counts[/hl2].

## [why]
[hr_minor]

During the first frame of the intentional hyper break [hl2]the invincibility frames of the hyper break haven't initialised yet[/hl2], leaving the player vulnerable. Instead, the invincibility frames are given one frame after the hyper break. [hl2]It is not possible to escape this death through death-bombing[/hl2]. This is because when the hyper is broken, there is a slight cooldown in which the player cannot use a bomb. This cooldown prevents the player from escaping the death through the means of death-bombing. 
Though, the invincibility frames from other sources, such as bombs or deaths, prevent the first frame of vulnerability from happening. This means the death can only be triggered if the player has no invincibility frames prior to pressing [key=X].

[hr_major]
