[title=WBaWC: Token duplication]
# Token duplication
[hr_major]
## [specs]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice mode[/no] - [no]Achievement hall[/no]
* **Shottype**: [table=111111111]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Every mid-boss in WBaWC can drop a special token. When timing down a hyper that has one or more special tokens in it, then the player is rewarded with 5 tokens. When timing down a hyper with no special tokens, then the player is rewarded with 2 tokens. However, it is possible to [hl2]time down a hyper with no special token and be rewarded with 5 tokens[/hl2].


## [how]
[hr_minor]

When timing down a hyper, the following events happen in order:
1. You have an active hyper.
2. Your hyper is deactivated by timing it down.
3. You are rewarded with items from any item tokens you may have collected.
4. Two seconds pass.
5. The reward is checked and you are rewarded with 2 or 5 tokens depending on if you had a special token.

There is a short delay between timing down the hyper and being rewarded with 2 or 5 tokens. When doing the token duplication, [hl2]the player has to activate a non-special hyper with a special token during the short delay of 2 seconds[/hl2]. By doing this, the player receives 5 tokens instead of 2. 

Alternatively, if you initially activate a hyper with a special token, then during the delay of 2 seconds activate a non-special hyper, then you are rewarded with 2 tokens instead of 5 tokens.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Internally, the following events happen in order:
1. The old hyper ends.
2. During the two-second delay, a new hyper is started
3. The old hyper drops the token rewards of the new hyper.
4. When timing out the reward of the new hyper normally, the player still receives the rewards of the new hyper.

In other words, [hl2]the reward of the old hyper is overwritten by the token reward of the new hyper[/hl2]. 

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Soon:tm:

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=7tWc2Qfu90]
+ [cite=Jwhtg37pHy]
+ [cite=qFHCsyy1AU]

