[title=WBaWC: Token Desync - Stage Transition Edition]
# Token Desync - Stage Transition Edition
[hr_major]
## [specs]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [no]Spell practice mode[/no] - [no]Achievement hall[/no]
* **Shottype**: [table=111111111]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

When starting a replay from Stage 2 through Stage 6, it is possible for the replay to desync at the start of the stage. When starting from Stage 2 through Stage 6, it is possible that the replay starts off with no tokens being spawned. When letting the replay being played from the stage prior, it can be seen that there are tokens that spawn.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

When timing down a hyper, the following events happen in order:
1. You have an active hyper.
2. Your hyper is deactivated by timing it down.
3. You are rewarded with items from any item tokens you may have collected.
4. Two seconds pass.
5. The reward is checked and you are rewarded with 2 or 5 tokens depending on if you had a special token.

There is a short delay between timing down the hyper and being rewarded with 2 or 5 tokens. [hl2]During the short delay, it is possible for a stage transition to take place[/hl2]. In the case a stage transition takes place, [hl2]the two second delay is being extended until the subsequent stage starts[/hl2]. 

For example, suppose a player times down a hyper right when finishing Urumi's final spell-card. The player has to wait two seconds for the token to spawn. However, the player immediately skips dialogue and Stage 3 is being loaded. In this case, the two second delay is extended until Stage 3 is loaded. Once Stage 3 is loaded, the tokens from the hyper spawn.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Internally, the replay file saves a bunch of playerdata that allows for smooth playback from any selected stage. However, ZUN did not take into account tokens that are timed out from previous stages. This means that [hl2]starting a replay from Stage 2 through Stage 6[/hl2] may cause the replay to [hl2]desync because of the lack of tokens[/hl2]. 

The lack of tokens themselves can cause desyncs in various ways. The primary way is that the [hl2]RNG seed is updated[/hl2] meaning anything random from the stage opener onward is different. A secondary way is that the player character may [hl2]accidentally activate a hyper too early[/hl2], which can result in a desync in numerous ways. 

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Soon:tm:

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=7tWc2Qfu90]
+ [cite=Jwhtg37pHy]
+ [cite=qFHCsyy1AU]

