[title=WBaWC: Token Desync - Roaring Mode Edition]
# Token Desync - Roaring Mode Edition
[hr_major]
## [specs]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [yes]Spell practice mode[/yes] - [no]Achievement hall[/no]
* **Shottype**: [table=111111111]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

When watching a replay, the replay may start off with extra tokens and/or extra items spawning. The replay is then guaranteed to desynchronise. 

## [how]
[hr_minor]

There is a consistent set-up as to why this desync takes place.

It happens as follows:
1. The player has a hyper active.
2. The player quits their current attempt, and starts a new attempt.
3. On the new attempt, the player saves a replay.
4. The saved replay spawns with the additional items/tokens, which desyncs the replay. 

It is important to note that steps 1 and 2 do not have to be when the player is playing - [hl2]Quitting a (demo) replay during an active hyper also counts as quitting your current attempt[/hl2] ! 

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The desync has to do with how the game handles its data internally.

In the context of this page, 'data' means things such as Power, Score, PIV, Tokens you picked up, Lives count, Hyper state, etc.

When quitting to the menu or resetting the stage, the game does not immediately reset the player's data. Instead, the data first gets copied to your replay, and then it gets reset to its initial state. However, this means that some hyper flags get copied over to the replay which when playing it back causes the replay to desync.


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Soon:tm:

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=KLamMCsoO9]
