[title=WBaWC: Desync - Random Token Edition]
# Desync - Random Token Edition
[hr_major]
## [specs]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [no]Spell practice mode[/no] - [no]Achievement hall[/no]
* **Shottype**: [table=111111111]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

When watching a replay from Stage 2 through Stage 6, the replay may desynchronise in the middle of the stage. This usually happens when having timed out a hyper in which the game gives the player different tokens, but rarely can it happen slightly differently. 

## [how]
[hr_minor]

Despite its seemingly random occurrence, there is a consistent set-up for this desync to take place.

1. On the stage prior to the desync, the following must be true:
The player must have an [match=Otter] hyper as their last hyper of the stage.
The [match=Otter] hyper must be timed out.
The [match=Otter] hyper must be touching an enemy when being timed out.
2. On the stage of the desync, the player must activate a hyper.
3. On the stage of the desync, the hyper must be timed out.

[hl2]When starting directly from the stage of the desync, the hyper actually lasts a few frames longer than when having started it from the previous stage[/hl2].

There are various ways the desync could be caused. Below lists a few ways:
1. The player receives different tokens
2. The hyper ends a lot later than intentionally because of token pick-ups
3. The player does not pick up/picks ups a token that was spawned from the delayed hyper.

Sometimes, the replay doesn't desync at all with there being no differences. Other times, the replay has a slight score desync but the replay still works just fine.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

In order to understand why this desync happens, we must first know what causes the duration of hypers to decrease.

1. When not shooting, the hyper duration decreases by 1 per frame.
2. When shooting, the hyper duration decreases by 2 per frame.
3. When using an [match=Otter] hyper, the hyper duration decreases by 2 per frame if the [match=Otter] part of the hyper is touching an enemy.

Whether the hyper duration decreases by 1 or 2 per frame is more complicated than at first thought.

1. When not shooting, the hyper duration decreases by 1 per frame.
In this case, the game checks whether the player has shot in the last few frames. If false, then the hyper duration decreases by 1 per frame.
2. When shooting, the hyper duration decreases by 2 per frame.
In this case, the game checks whether the player has shot in the last few frames. If true, then the hyper duration decreases by 1 per frame.
3. When using an [match=Otter] hyper, the hyper duration decreases by 2 per frame if the [match=Otter] part of the hyper is touching an enemy.
This works differently. In this case, the game checks whether the [match=Otter] part of the hyper has hit an enemy However, this process does not happen every frame. Even if the [match=Otter] part of the hyper hits an enemy for let's say exactly 5 frames, the hyper duration is going to decrease by 2 per frame for much longer than 5 frames (the hyper decreases by 2 per frame for *about* 30 frames). 
Instead, if the [match=Otter] part of the hyper touches an enemy, the hyper duration from that point on decreases by 2 per frame for about 30 frames during an active hyper. This process is stopped if the hyper is prematurely ended. However, this process is *paused* if the hyper is ended by timing it out. This means that the next hyper resumes the process until the ~30 frames have ended.

When starting directly from the desynced stage, the game does not remember that the previous hyper was an [match=Otter] hyper, and that the hyper ended naturally with the [match=Otter] hyper touching an enemy. Because of this, when starting from the desynced stage, the first hyper lasts slightly longer than intentionally, which may result in a desync. 

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

This happens quite frequently in scorerun replays. To be added soon.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=tkOd4IHAos]

