[title=WBaWC: Saki's Final Bomb Damage]
# Saki's Final Bomb Damage
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [no]Easy[/no] - [no]Normal[/no] - [no]Hard[/no] - [no]Lunatic[/no] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [no]Spell practice mode[/no] - [no]Achievement hall[/no]
* **Shottype**: <div id='table-shottype'></div> [table=111111111]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]Saki gains a hurtbox during her final spell-card during a bomb[/hl2]. This can usually not happen, because Extra bosses are supposed to be immune to bombs.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

Saki can take bomb damage by bombing between any of the following three cases:
1. [hl2]Bomb before Saki starts her final spell-card[/hl2].
Saki won't take damage for the first 90 frames of the spell-card.
2. Bomb 1-59f after Saki starts her final spell-card.
Saki won't take damage for the first 90 frames of the spell-card. Saki can take damage after the 90 frames, [hl2]but she takes heavily reduced damage[/hl2] because a bomb was used during the first 60f of the spell-card.
3. [hl2]Bomb 60-89f after Saki starts her final spell-card[/hl2].
Saki won't take damage for the first 90 frames of the spell-card. Saki can take damage after the 90 frames.


## [why]
[hr_minor]

The code of Saki's boss-fight is located in a file called ``st07bs.ecl``. During the final spell-card, Saki is given the ``bombShield`` instruction.

The ``bombShield`` instruction makes the parent object (in this case, Saki) invincible when a bomb is triggered. Once the bomb has ended, the parent object regains its hurtbox.

When the spell is initialised, Saki is given a ``bombShield`` instruction on her final spell-card. This means she would usually regain a hurtbox once the bomb has ended. However, there is another instruction that interferes with the ``bombShield`` instruction, which I will call ``flagClear``.

The ``flagClear`` instruction removes flag(s) on the parent object. In the case on Saki's final spell-card, the ``flagClear`` instruction is set to be called 90 frames after the spell has started. In this spell-card, the flags that are cleared are flags that disable the hitbox and hurtbox of Saki.

If the player bombs before the spell-card starts, then the following sequence of events happen:
1. The player uses a bomb before the final spell-card.
2. The final spell-card is initialised. The ``bombShield`` instruction is called.
3. 90 frames pass.
4. The flag that disables Saki's hitbox and hurtbox are cleared. This overwrites the ``bombShield`` instruction, giving Saki a hurtbox the player can damage.

But if the game removes the flags that disables the hitbox and hurtbox of Saki 90 frames after the spell is initialised, then how come the player is able to shoot Saki during the first 90 frames of the spell? Well, the answer is very simple: Saki also regains her hitbox and hurtbox before the spell is started ! The extra ``flagClear`` instruction during the final spell-card is redundant, unless the player intents to bomb the final spell-card.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=y4dOw7rsW0]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=nR5vbyfi91]

