[title=UDoALG: Rin Boss Skip]
# Rin Boss Skip
[hr_major]

## [specs]  
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [no]1.10c[/no]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Story mode[/yes] - [yes]VS mode[/yes] - [yes]Online VS mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [no]Reimu[/no] - [no]Marisa[/no] - [no]Sanae[/no] - [no]Ran[/no] - [no]Aunn[/no] - [no]Nazrin[/no] - [no]Seiran[/no] - [yes]Rin[/yes] - [no]Tsukasa[/no] - [no]Mamizou[/no] - [no]Yachie[/no] - [no]Saki[/no] - [no]Yuuma[/no] - [no]Suika[/no] - [no]Biten[/no] - [no]Enoko[/no] - [no]Chiyari[/no] - [no]Hisami[/no] - [no]Zanmu[/no]


## [what]
[hr_minor]

It is possible for Rin to skip an incoming boss from the opponent by using a Charge Attack 2 (C2). This is possible in Story mode, VS mode, and Online VS mode. If this skip is done on the last boss on a stage in Story mode, the only way to progress would be for the opponent to manually use a Charge Attack 3 (C3) or a Charge Attack 4 (C4). [hl2]This glitch is only specific to version 1.00a[/hl2].

## [how]
[hr_minor]

Rin must use a C2 at most one second before the opponent spawns an incoming boss. In particular, the following sequence of events must occur in order:

1. Rin uses a C2;
2. 1-60 frames after rin uses her C2, the opponent spawns an incoming boss.

The time is anywhere between 1-60 frames because the boss skip depends on the area that the C2 covers, which is dependent on Rin's position. For example, if Rin were at the bottom of the screen and uses a C2, it takes longer for the area at the top of the screen to be covered by her C2 than it takes the area at the bottom to be covered by her C2.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Rin's C2 works by converting most non-bullet objects on-screen (such as enemies, but also Nazrin's pendulums) from her side into red spirits. These red spirits are on Rin's side of the screen. The red spirits are easy to shoot down and are easily destroyed by chaining explosions. Rin's C2 lasts for a total of 60 frames.

In general, a boss can be spawned on your side if the opponent uses a C3 or a C4. In Story Mode, your opponent can also spawn a boss if the internal progress meter meets the transition threshold. The progress meter is a hidden meter that keeps track of how far the fight has progressed by.

When the opponent spawns a boss is spawned, the following sequence of actions happens:
1. The opponent spawns a boss, either through a C3, C4, or if the opponent is in Story mode, through the progress meter;
2. [hl2]An invisible enemy[/hl2] called ``Boss00`` spawns at the coordinates ``(0, 0)``;
3. [hl2]One frame[/hl2] after ``Boss00`` spawns, it makes itself invulnerable and it spawns the boss. Once the summoned boss has died, ``Boss00`` deletes itself.

Essentially ``Boss00`` is an invisible and invulnerable boss manager that handles the creation of the boss that the player fights.

It is worthy to note that ``Boss00`` makes itself invulnerable only one frame after it is spawned. During that one frame, it can be affected by Rin's C2. As stated before, Rin's C2 converts enemies into red spirits. Since ``Boss00`` is an enemy that is not invulnerable for one frame, it means that [hl2]a well-timed C2 can convert ``Boss00`` into a red spirit, skipping the boss[/hl2].

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=JH1JFPV8L0]
