[title=UFO: MarisaA's Laser Damage]
# MarisaA's Laser Damage
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [no]ReimuA[/no] - [no]ReimuB[/no] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [no]MarisaB[/no] - [no]SanaeA[/no] - [no]SanaeB[/no]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Sometimes, MarisaA deals more or less damage despite being at the same power level. This can be taken advantage of by allowing MarisaA to speedkill certain attacks.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

There are two ways to get a different damage output despite having the same power level:
1. When at 1/2/3 power, experience a [hl2]power-up while continuing with shooting[/hl2].
2. At 4 power, [hl2]start off shooting unfocused, then shoot focused[/hl2] (and also vice versa).

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The data of MarisaA's shot is stored in the file ``pl01a.sht``. In it most data about the shottype can be found. The damage values of MarisaA's lasers go as follows:

|  No-Focus | Laser 1 | Laser 2 | Laser 3 | Laser 4 |
|:---------:|:-------:|:-------:|:-------:|:-------:|
| 1.00-1.99 |    17   |         |         |         |
| 2.00-2.99 |    11   |    11   |         |         |
| 3.00-3.99 |    9    |    9    |    9    |         |
|    4.00   |    10   |    10   |    10   |    10   |

[br]


|   Focus   | Laser 1 | Laser 2 | Laser 3 | Laser 4 |
|:---------:|:-------:|:-------:|:-------:|:-------:|
| 1.00-1.99 |    17   |         |         |         |
| 2.00-2.99 |    11   |    11   |         |         |
| 3.00-3.99 |    9    |    9    |    9    |         |
|    4.00   |    8    |    8    |    8    |    8    |

[br]

Interestingly enough, there is a small damage difference between No-Focus and Focus Marisa at 4 power.

Whenever MarisaA's lasers are fired, [hl2]the lasers maintain their damage until the player stops shooting[/hl2]. If the player experiences a [hl2]power-up[/hl2], or if the player [hl2]toggles between a No-Focus and Focus state[/hl2], then the [hl2]laser's damage is not updated[/hl2]. This allows for MarisaA to deal a different amount of Damage Per Second, depending on the state of the lasers.

### Laser damage calculations
[hr_minor]

This section is going to talk about the damage output of the lasers. It does not cover the total Damage Per Second output of MarisaA.

If 4-power MarisaA starts shooting while focused, then the lasers deal a total of [hl2]32 dmg[/hl2].
If 4-power MarisaA starts shooting while unfocused, then the lasers deal a total of [hl2]40 dmg[/hl2].
If 2-power MarisaA starts shooting, and then powers-up (2-power → 3-power → 4-power No-Focus), then the lasers deal a total of 11 + 11 + 9 + 10 = [hl2]41 dmg[/hl2].
If 1-power MarisaA starts shooting, and then powers-up (1-power → 2-power → 3-power → 4-power No-Focus), then the lasers deal a total of 17 + 11 + 9 + 10 = [hl2]47 dmg[/hl2].
If 1-power MarisaA starts shooting, and then powers-up (1-power → 2-power → 4-power No-Focus), then the lasers deal a total of 17 + 11 + 10 + 10 = [hl2]48 dmg[/hl2]. (Note: this is possible if the player collects at least 101 power in one frame.)


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Soon

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=1bBWvqDT6t]

[buildCategoriesTable]