[title=LoLK: Sagume Skip]
# Sagume Skip

[hr_major]  
## [specs]  
[hr_minor]
* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Legacy mode[/yes] - [yes]Point Device mode[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [no]Marisa[/no] - [yes]Sanae[/yes] - [no]Reisen[/no]


## [what] 
[hr_minor]

Upon successfully replicating the Sagume Skip, [hl2]her fight ends immediately[/hl2] and you are brought to her post-boss dialogue. Upon doing this you will not trigger the spells, meaning if you never faced any spells before they will appear as ??? when looking at your Player Data. Also, you will be missing out on free chapter bonuses. The game runs normally after skipping Sagume. Replays are compatible.
## [how]
[hr_minor]

If any damage is dealt between the transition of her non-spell and spell, the spell will start off with reduced HP. If [hl2]enough damage is dealt[/hl2] between the transition of her non-spell and spell, her HP will be below ``0``, [hl2]causing the spell not to be triggered and instantly skipping the fight[/hl2]. Therefore, the player must deal over a specific amount of damage [hl2]in exactly ``3`` frames[/hl2] on any of her non-spells.

The reason why there is a three frame window between the non-spell and the spell has to do with the mode Point Device. It is not uncommon to die the frame the chapter ends. In order to prevent an eternal softlock between the transition, the game needs a few frames of waiting between chapters. 

This skip is generally achieved by [hl2]doing a precise bomb[/hl2] right before her spell gets triggered. The bombs ensure that the yin-yangs are destroyed, depleting Sagume's HP thus skipping the fight.

Because a powerful bomb is recommended, shottypes like Marisa and Reisen are not suitable for replicating the skip. Although it is theoretically possible, their bombs and shot are not suited for this job.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The player has a ``3`` frame window to deplete Sagume's spell HP. The spell HP goes as follows:
* Spell 1: ``2300`` HP
* Spell 2: ``3100`` HP
* Spell 3: ``2500`` HP

The player can only deal ``60`` HP of damage to an enemy per frame, meaning only `3 * 60 = 180` HP can be deducted purely from player damage.
[hl2]The rest of the damage comes from destroying the yin yangs[/hl2]. The yin yangs vary from non-spell to non-spell, each of them reducing their own number of HP when destroyed. The values go as follows:

* Yin yangs on non-spell 1: ``-220`` HP
* Yin yangs on non-spell 2: ``-330`` HP
* Yin yangs on non-spell 3: ``-330`` HP

(Although the non-spells have a mix of red and blue yin yangs, they both deal the same damage to Sagume when destroyed.)

All non-spells have a total of ``12`` yin yangs per wave on all difficulties. The only instances in which this does not apply is the second non-spell and the third non-spell on Easy mode as it only has ``6`` yin yangs per wave.

[hl2]Suppose all yin yangs are killed and the boss is being hit by the player, [hl2]the following would be the maximum damage possible in the three frames[/hl2]:
* Non-spell 1: `3 * 60 + 220 * 12 = 2820` HP, dealing `520` excess damage.
* Non-spell 2: `3 * 60 + 330 * 12 = 4140` HP, dealing `1040` excess damage.
* Non-spell 3: `3 * 60 + 330 * 12 = 4140` HP, dealing `1640` excess damage.

On non-spell 1, the player must kill at least ``10`` out of ``12`` yin yangs to deplete Sagume's HP to ``0``.
On non-spell 2, the player must kill at least ``9`` out of ``12`` yin yangs to deplete Sagume's HP to ``0``.
On non-spell 3, the player must kill at least ``8`` out of ``12`` yin yangs to deplete Sagume's HP to ``0``.

Sagume will not trigger her subsequent non-spell when her HP is depleted to ``0``. By default, if an enemy has ``0`` HP, the enemy gets destroyed. Consequently, Sagume's spells have a check if her HP is ``0``. [hl2]However, Sagume's non-spell do not have a check if her HP is ``0``[/hl2]. Because she does not have a check on her non-spell, it means [hl2]there is no code that tells Sagume to progress to the next attack[/hl2]. This results in a skip if and only if her HP is depleted to ``0`` in a ``3`` frame window.

Since there is too much precision involved when destroying the yin yangs, it is therefore much easier to execute the skip on the third non-spell as opposed to the second or the first. 



[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]
