[title=LoLK: Doremy's First Non-spell Typo]
# Doremy's First Non-spell Typo
[hr_major]
## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [no]Easy[/no] - [no]Normal[/no] - [no]Hard[/no] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Legacy mode[/yes] - [yes]Point Device mode[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes] - [yes]Reisen[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The uneven wave of Doremy's first on Lunatic spins faster than intended. The pattern looks very messy and it looks like there is little to no consistency to it.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

ZUN made a typo.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The code of Doremy's first non-spell goes as follows:

[code]void Boss1()
{
    [...] //Irrelevant code
Boss1_320:
!E
    -0.034907f; //EASY
!N
    -0.022689f; //NORMAL
!H
    -0.017453f; //HARD
!LO
    -0.017453f; //LUNATIC
!*
    @Boss1_at(3.1415927f, [-1.0f]); //Uneven waves attacks get executed - [-1.0f] means the value is inherited depending on difficulty shown above.
    wait(20);
    moveRand(60, 4, 1.0f);
    wait(60);
!E
    0.034907f;
!N
    0.022689f;
!H
    0.017453f;
!LO
    0.174533f; //TYPO
!*
    @Boss1_at(0.0f, [-1.0f]); //Even waves - On Lunatic the value of [-1.0f] is 0.174533f.
    wait(20);
    moveRand(60, 4, 1.0f);
    wait(60);
Boss1_712:
    if (1) goto Boss1_320 @ 0;
    return;
}
[/code]
<br>The line `0.174533f;` is the reason why Doremy's first non-spell on the even waves feels off. The bullets on the uneven waves rotate at a speed of `-0.017453f`. This means the angular velocity is 10x greater on the even wave compared to the uneven wave.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ Any Lunatic replay of Stage 3 suffices, so none are provided.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]
