[title=DDC: Score Underflow]
# Score Underflow
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [yes]Spell practice[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [no]ReimuA[/no] - [no]ReimuB[/no] - [no]MarisaA[/no] - [no]MarisaB[/no] - [yes]SakuyaA[/yes] - [no]SakuyaB[/no]

Disclaimer: While the [a=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integer_overflow]Wikipedia definition[/a] of an [hl2]underflow[/hl2] is technically an overflow, this page will refer to [a=https://maribelhearn.com/jargon#term_underflow]Maribel Hearn's definition[/a] of an [hl2]underflow[/hl2].

[box=1000]When a negative number is converted to a format that does not have negative numbers, causing a very high positive number. Notoriously occurs in DDC and ISC, in which the Spell-Card Bonus can be made negative, which, if the score becomes negative when the bonus is added, increases the score to 9,999,999,990, a [a=https://maribelhearn.com/jargon#term_counterstop]counterstop[/a].[/box]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The game sets your score to a score of 9,999,999,990. This can happen in all gamemodes, but it is easily done the easiest on spell practice mode.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]The current score must reach a negative value[/hl2]. The only way to reduce your score is by [hl2]capturing a spell that has a negative spell bonus[/hl2]. Furthermore, you must make sure that the negative spell bonus is large enough such that [hl2]your current total score is negative[/hl2]. Upon capturing a spell-card with a negative spell bonus, the text that is displayed is incorrect. This is purely visual.

[img=bugs/th14/0_score.png, figtitle=TITLETOBEADDED, alt=ALTTOBEADDED, other= ]

## [why]
[hr_minor]

In order to understand this we must understand how numbers are stored.
Your current score and your highscore is stored as an unsigned 32-bit integer. This means it can store values ranging from ``0`` to ``4,294,967,295``, in total having ``2^32`` possibilities.
In the case of a replay getting a score of ``9,999,999,990``, the value the game reads/writes is ``999,999,999``,[hl2]NOT ``9,999,999,990``[/hl2]. The last digit of the displayed score is saved somewhere else.

### Underflow
[hr_minor]

Since score can take values from the range ``[0; 4,294,967,295]`` values that go above the limit of ``4,294,967,295`` is called overflow. Values that go below the limit of ``0`` is called underflow.

The integer ``0`` in binary is ``0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000``[sub]2[/sub]. If 1 is subtracted from ``0`` we get a number that in binary is ``1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111``[sub]2[/sub].

As an analogy, just imagine the number ``40,000`` in decimal notation. You are only able to read the first 4 digits from the right (``0000``). If 1 is subtracted from ``40,000`` we get ``39,999``. However, since you are only able to read the first 4 digits from the right the digits you can see are ``9999``. This means subtracting ``1`` from ``0`` sets the score to ``4,294,967,295``.

### Method
[hr_minor]

In order to achieve getting a "negative score", [hl2]the player must use SakuyaA and preferably go in Spell practice for this[/hl2]. 

[hl2]The way spell bonus is calculated is by subtracting a constant from the current bonus when five seconds have passed[/hl2]. The constant depends on the initial value of the spell bonus.[br]

Take the following example:

SakuyaA is on Spell practice, Lunatic, Wakasagihime's first spell: Tail Fin Slap. The initial value of the spell bonus is ``9,000,000`` and the starting time is ``40.00s``. When 300 frames have passed, the score bonus decreases by a constant of ``2,860`` per frame. Capturing the spell unfocused with ``00.01s`` left would give a total score of ``9,000,000 - 2,860 * 60 * (40 - 5) = 2,994,000`` (The - 5 is because the first 300 frames the score does not decrease).
[hl2]We want to get a score of 0 or lower[/hl2]. This means that the constant of ``2,860`` has to tick down for at least ``57.45s`` or ``3,447 frames``.

The time of ``57.45s`` is above ``40.00s``, meaning it is not possible to achieve such a high time under normal circumstances. [hl2]However, SakuyaA's subshot knives allow for special gimmick. The knives slow down the boss's actions as well as the time[/hl2]. This means that a ``40.00s`` long spell can technically be stretched out to a ``58.00s`` attack.[br]
[hl2]This is done by applying enough knives on the boss, slowing the timer[/hl2]. Once the timer is approaching ``00.00s``, the spell must be captured last second. If done well, the spell bonus gained should be a negative value. This triggers the underflow.

### 9,999,999,990
[hr_minor]

There is a scorecap in the modern games of Touhou, which is set at ``9,999,999,990``. This is an arbitrary number chosen by ZUN. It is not possible to get a score higher than ``9,999,999,990`` without the use of modifications.[br]

This is why the score is set to 9,999,999,990 and not anything else.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=C8JIJHBmZm]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=tyqdbrOWJQ]
+ [cite=2OdweRcuyk]
+ [cite=JGF7WX9Rou]
+ [cite=0Fc7nbbZRr]
+ [cite=7YCGPMtmPO]

### [misc]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=1TwZQlGqEN]

