[title=DDC: Bulletless Kagerou]
# Bulletless Kagerou
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]SakuyaA[/yes] - [yes]SakuyaB[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Kagerou stops shooting bullets on her second spell, third non-spell and third spell. This effect does not take place in the other stages.
[img=bugs/th14/1_comparison.png, figtitle=Two screenshots of Kagerou's third non-spell. Left side shows what it's like normally. Right side shows no bullets., alt=Two screenshots of SakuyaA fighting against Kagerou] [br]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]The player must repeatedly bomb and/or die on Kagerou's mid-boss spell and/or Kagerou's second spell[/hl2]. These actions must be done at specific times, particularly right after Kagerou howls. This must be done until ``2,000`` bullets have prematurely been cleared.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Kagerou's mid-boss spell and second spell both create invisible bullets that spawn after a few game ticks. The invisible bullets count towards the bullet cap, which is set at ``2,000``. 

The bullets use an ECL instruction called [ins=0, n=611]. This ECL instruction adds a transformation to the bullet, which is set with [ins=0, n=611]'s argument ``type``. In this glitch, this value is equal to ``67108864``, or ``0x04000000`` in hexadecimal.

For simplicitly, I will use a [a=https://priw8.github.io/#s=MERLIN/doc/functions/transformations]MERLIN macro[/a] that makes it easier to understand the explanation. Using the macro, the value ``0x04000000`` corresponds to [ins=2, n=BulletEffectType-67108864]. This bullet transformation hides the bullet for ``time``. During this time, it will [hl2]not move be invisible and not have a hitbox[/hl2].

### The flag [ins=2, n=6]
[hr_minor]

When a bullet of transfomation ``0x04000000`` is set, the bullet sets an [hl2]internal flag[/hl2] called [ins=2, n=6]. While this flag is set, the bullet will be invisible and not have a hitbox. This flag is cleared once ``time`` frames have passed.

When a bullet with [ins=2, n=BulletEffectType-67108864] is spawned, the following sequence of events happen:
1. The bullet is created by the boss and is linked to the bullet list
2. The bullet's internal flag [ins=2, n=6] is set to ``true``.
3. The bullet waits until ``time`` frames have passed.
4. The bullet's internal flag [ins=2, n=6] is set to ``false``. The bullets is now visible and tangible. 

### Removing the bullet from the bullet list
[hr_minor]

The bullet list is a list of all bullets that have been fired by enemies and are currently active. This list is updated every game-tick and has a capacity of ``2,000``. In other words, at most ``2,000`` bullets can exist at once. If this limit has been reached and any more patterns are shot, the new bullets will fail to appear. This list also keeps track of bullets of transformation ``0x04000000`` despite those bullets visually not having appeared yet.

When a bullet is destroyed, the following sequence of events happen:

1. The bullet is destroyed (either through dying or bombing).
2. The bullet's [hl2]state variable[/hl2] changes from ``1`` (normal) to ``4`` (in the process of being cleared).
3. If the flag [ins=2, n=6] is [hl2]not set[/hl2], then the bullet is removed from the bullet list.

### Clearing the bullet while the flag [ins=2, n=6] is set 

We can now combine the knowledge of the previous two sections. Suppose that the bullet is cleared while the flag [ins=2, n=6] is ``true``. The following sequence of events happen:

1. The bullet is created by the boss and is linked to the bullet list
2. The bullet's internal flag [ins=2, n=6] is set to ``true``.
3. The bullet waits until ``time`` frames have passed.
4. [hl2]Before ``time`` frames have passed, the bullet is destroyed[/hl2].
5. The bullet's [hl2]state variable[/hl2] changes from ``1`` to ``4``.
6. The flag [ins=2, n=6] is [hl2]set[/hl2], therefore the bullet is not removed from the bullet list.

Since the state variable is ``4``, [hl2]some transformations that are set by [ins=0, n=611] are skipped, which includes the transformation ``0x04000000``[/hl2]. In the example of [ins=2, n=BulletEffectType-67108864], it means that [hl2]any instructions[/hl2] related to the ``time`` variable are [hl2]skipped[/hl2]. As a result, the bullet's internal flag [ins=2, n=6] cannot change and will stay ``true``.

The result of this is that [hl2]the bullet will forever remain in a state where it takes up a slot in the bullet list while never visually appearing on-screen[/hl2].

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=UOqn0F4Txs]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]