[title=DDC: Marisa's Lasers]
# Marisa's Lasers
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [yes]Spell practice[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [no]ReimuA[/no] - [no]ReimuB[/no] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [no]SakuyaA[/no] - [no]SakuyaB[/no]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Marisa's laser(s) bugs out. It may burnout, it may be set at a 45° angle, it may undergo quantum tunneling and kill and enemy the opposite side of the screen. 

[hl2]This event happens at random[/hl2], meaning your replay may be desynced because of this bug.

[img=bugs/th14/2_comparison.png, figtitle=TITLETOBEADDED, alt=ALTTOBEADDED, other= ] [br]
## [how]
[hr_minor]

Marisa's laser(s) rarely bug out when it comes in contact with an enemy. This event happens at random. 

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The code for Marisa's lasers is as follows:

[code] // For full code, see https://www.bilibili.com/read/cv5915344
\[...\]
if (!a3)
{
    \[...\]
    v19 = v48; // This line causes problems.
    \[...\]
    v20 = v19 + 8,0;
    v7[44] = v20; // Set Length
    \[...\]
}
[/code]

To summarise the code above:[br]
The value of ``v19`` is set to the value of ``v48``.[br]
However, [hl2]the value of ``v48`` is undefined[/hl2]. This is because ``v48`` [hl2]is an uninitialised variable[/hl2], meaning ``v48`` has never been assigned a value before. This means ``v48`` has an undefined value.[br]
With this logic, the value of ``v19`` is also undefined.[br]
This also means ``v20`` is undefined.[br]
``v7`` sets the length of Marisa's lasers. Because ``v7`` takes the value of ``v20`` it means that ``v7`` too is undefined.[br]
Because ``v7`` is undefined, [hl2]the length of Marisa's laser is set to an undefined value[/hl2]. This causes the laser to glitch out.


In terms of why the bug happens very inconsistently, it has to do with numerous factors; your operating system being one of them from what I have been told.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=wnayUcLTm4]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=CsfBtzUZC6]

### [misc]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=zh0UyZj9Z6]

### [patches]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=8QLC9GB17N] (deprecated)
+ [cite=dSOMvHmFuV]
