[title=DDC: Gohei Duplication]
# Gohei Duplication
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [yes]Spell practice[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [no]ReimuB[/no] - [no]MarisaA[/no] - [no]MarisaB[/no] - [no]SakuyaA[/no] - [no]SakuyaB[/no]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

ReimuA can have [hl2]multiple goheis[/hl2] on screen. All goheis are able to deal damage. Because of this, it is possible to speedkill by using multiple goheis. The goheis stay active as long as you keep shooting, meaning you cannot carry them over to other stages. This also means you cannot maintain multiple goheis during dialogue, because you stop shooting.

[img=bugs/th14/4_dupe.png, figtitle=Two screenshots of ReimuA with multiple on-screen goheis at once, alt=Two in game screenshots with multiple goheis per screenshot] [br]
## [how]
[hr_minor]

Note: this section is technical. [jumpto=#/guides/th14-gohei-dupe]If you want to learn a human set-up on how to do it, you can do so by clicking here[/jumpto].

There are two ways for a gohei to despawn:
+ The player stops shooting (whether it's through unfocussing or not holding [key=Z])
+ The gohei goes off-screen

In order duplicate one gohei, the following procedure must be done:

1. Have your first gohei (gohei 1) on-screen
2. Stop shooting such that gohei 1 is in its despawning animation
3. While the gohei 1 is despawning, spawn your second gohei (gohei 2)
4. Before gohei 1 finishes its despawning animation, [hl2]let gohei 1 despawn by going off-screen[/hl2].
5. On the next frame, spawn the third gohei (gohei 3)
6. You are now left with 2 goheis (gohei 2 and gohei 3)

Note that [hl2]step 5 may not work due to a complicated factor[/hl2] that is described in the next section. This complicated factor is not related to randomness but is deterministic.

This process can be done concurrently, meaning [hl2]it is possible to spawn more than two goheis at once[/hl2]. 

This set-up is most commonly [hl2]done at the top of the screen[/hl2] due to step 4 being hard to execute if the gohei were to go off-screen elsewhere, even though it is possible.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Before we dive deeper into the cause of the gohei duplication glitch, we must first talk about the mechanics of the gohei. The topics discussed are as follows:

+ Gohei dimensions
+ Gohei target distances
+ Gohei velocity
+ Gohei despawn timer
+ Gohei flag
+ Shot cycle
+ Bullet list

Each of these topics are relevant to the gohei dupe. After each of these topics have been discussed, two examples are provided along with an explanation. 

### Gohei dimensions
[hr_minor]

The gohei has varying dimensions depending on the player's power level.

| Power level | Width (units) | Height (units) |
| ----------- | ------------- | -------------- |
| 1 power     | 64            | 64             |
| 2 power     | 76.8          | 76.8           |
| 3 power     | 89.6          | 89.6           |
| 4 power     | 112           | 112            |

### Gohei target distance
[hr_minor]

The gohei targets enemies differently based on when it was shot and how far away it is from the nearest enemy. 

[hl2]During the first 10 frames[/hl2] of spawning, if there is an enemy within [hl2]160 units[/hl2] of the [hl2]spawn radius[/hl2], the gohei targets the enemy and instantly locks onto the enemy.
[hl2]After the first 10 frames[/hl2], if there is an enemy within [hl2]320 units[/hl2] of its radius, the gohei targets the enemy but does not instantly lock onto the enemy.

[img=bugs/th14/4_radii.png, figtitle=A comparison between a radius of 160 units (blue) with a radius of 320 units (orange). The 160 unit radius check happens on [hl2]the gohei spawning location[/hl2], which is right in ReimuA. The 320 unit radius check happens at the gohei's position., alt=A game screenshot showing two colored circles around ReimuA's gohei] [br]

### Gohei velocity
[hr_minor]

The gohei starts of with [hl2]an initial upwards velocity of 14.4 units per frame[/hl2]. Assuming that the gohei does not target an enemy, and that the player is shooting focussed, this speed value is [hl2]multiplied by 0.9 on every frame[/hl2]. If the player is not shooting focussed, the speed value is no longer multiplied by 0.9 thus the speed remains constant.

### Gohei despawn timer
[hr_minor]

The gohei enters its despawning animation under one of two conditions:

1. The gohei does not have a target, and the player is not focussed and is not shooting.
2. The gohei does have a target, and the player is not focussed and is not shooting [hl2]for more than 12 consecutive frames[/hl2].

The limit of 12 frames is hardcoded in the game. 

### Gohei flag
[hr_minor]

To understand why multiple goheis can coexist, we must understand the flag [ins=2, n=3]. [hl2][ins=2, n=3] is a boolean that determines if a gohei exists on-screen or not[/hl2]. (Note: if you look for this value in the game's memory, it is actually not a flag, but an integer representing the power level. However, in the context of this page it is more comprehensible to represent [ins=2, n=3] as a boolean.)

The following actions set [ins=2, n=3] to ``true``:
1. Having an [hl2]active gohei[/hl2] on-screen (done [hl2]every frame by every gohei[/hl2])

The following actions set [ins=2, n=3] to ``false``:
1. Having a gohei [hl2]go off-screen[/hl2] (done once)
2. Putting the gohei [hl2]into the despawning animation[/hl2]. (done once)

The following actions [hl2]do not change the state[/hl2] of [ins=2, n=3]:
1. Having no goheis on-screen
2. Having a gohei that is already in its despawning animation.

A gohei is considered to be off-screen if its full sprite is off-screen. 

### Shot cycle
[hr_minor]

The shoot timer is a number between ``-1`` and ``14``. This number is set to ``-1`` by default.
+ If the number is ``-1`` and the player presses [key=Z] on the next frame, the number increments by ``1`` every frame until the number is ``14``.
+ If the number is ``14`` and the player presses [key=Z] on the next frame, the number is set back to ``0`` and increases by 1 every frame until the number is ``14``.
+ If the number is ``14`` and the player does not press [key=Z] on the next frame, the shoot timer is set to ``-1`` and the player stops shooting.
+ If the number is between ``0`` and ``13``, the shoot timer continues to increment regardless if the player presses [key=Z] or not. This means that the player keeps shooting bullets.

In the context of this webpage, [hl2]if the number is between ``0`` and ``14`` it means that the player is shooting[/hl2]. If the number is ``-1`` the player is not shooting.

If the flag [ins=2, n=3] is ``false``, and the number is a multiple of 3 (``0``, ``3``, ``6``, ``9``, ``12``), then [hl2]the game spawns a gohei on the subsequent frame[/hl2]. This behaviour is coded in the file ``pl00a.sht``, which is where most of the shottype data of ReimuA is stored. 

### Bullet list
[hr_minor]

The bullet list is a [a=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_(abstract_data_type)]stack[/a] of size 256 whose elements are slots (IDs) for your player shots. 

The list starts from 255 and ends with 0 (so [255, 254, ..., 0]). Only the player bullets take up the slots. The order in which the bullets occupy a slot is manually decided in the ``pl00a.sht`` file.

For example, if you are shooting focussed for a frame, the following takes place in your sht:
1. Left amulet takes up the first slot (slot 255)
2. Right amulet takes up the second slot (slot 254)
3. Gohei takes up the third slot (slot 253)

The taken slots are [hl2]freed up when the object is destroyed[/hl2] (e.g. by going off-screen, by hitting an enemy). Once a slot is freed up, the [hl2]slot is pushed back in the order of despawning[/hl2]. This follows the Last In First Out (LIFO) principle, meaning the most recently added slot is the first to be accessed.

To continue the previous example, suppose the left amulet, the gohei, and the right amulet despawn in that order. The freed slots would be as follows: [254, 253, 255, 252, 251, ..., 0].

Note that [hl2]the gohei takes up a slot in the bullet list until it has fully despawned[/hl2]: if the gohei is in its despawning animation, its respective slot is still taken.

To understand why the bullet list is relevant to the gohei dupe, we must understand [hl2]how the flag [ins=2, n=3] is set when there are multiple goheis on-screen[/hl2].

[hl2]In one frame[/hl2], the following events are [hl2]executed in order[/hl2]:
1. If on the correct shot cycle, game spawns left amulet, right amulet
2. If on the correct shot cycle, game spawns a gohei if the value of flag [ins=2, n=3] is ``false``
3. Game runs through every gohei in active bullet list in ascending order of bullet slot
4. For every gohei, the flag [ins=2, n=3] changes depending on the current gohei's action

Step 3 tells that [hl2]the order in which the goheis are processed depends on their position in the bullet list[/hl2]. To have [ins=2, n=3] be set to ``false`` for a frame, [hl2]the gohei taking up the highest bullet slot must set [ins=2, n=3] to ``false``[/hl2].

### Explanation
[hr_minor]

Below two explanations of gohei duplications are provided: The first explanation explains what happens during [hl2]a double gohei[/hl2], and the second explanation explains what happens during [hl2]a quintuple gohei[/hl2].

### 2-gohei explanation
[hr_minor]

The following steps are performed sequentially:
1. Spawn Gohei 1 (``GH1``)
2. Put ``GH1`` in its despawning animation
3. Spawn Gohei 2 (``GH2``)
4. Let ``GH1`` despawn by going off-screen
5. Spawn Gohei 3 (``GH3``)

The player is left with two goheis: ``GH2`` and ``GH3``.

[hr_minor]

The full explanation goes as follows:

1. We spawn ``GH1``, preferably at the top of the screen. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``. [hl2]We want to make sure that ``GH1`` despawns by going off-screen on a frame that aligns with the shot cycle[/hl2]. Since in this case we spawn ``GH1`` at the top of the screen, there are three concepts to take into account: [hl2]the player's y-coordinate[/hl2], the [hl2]speed of the gohei[/hl2] (which depends on when [key=Shift] is released), and the [hl2]size of the gohei[/hl2].
2. We put ``GH1`` in its despawning animation, which we can only do if the gohei [hl2]does not have a target[/hl2]. In this case, we can easily achieve this by unholding [key=Shift] for one frame. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``false``.
3. Because [ins=2, n=3] is ``false``, ``GH2`` can be spawned. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``. 
4. [hl2]``GH1`` must despawn on a frame on which the shot cycle is divisible by 3[/hl2]. Additionally, [hl2]``GH1`` must occupy a bullet slot higher than what ``GH2`` has[/hl2]. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``false``.
5. Because [ins=2, n=3] is ``false``, ``GH2`` can be spawned. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``. 

Note that [hl2]we do not necessarily have to do the gohei duplication at the top of the screen[/hl2]: ``GH1`` is able to go off-screen through the side or the bottom of the screen, though it is easier to manipulate the gohei going off-screen through the top. Additionally, to put the gohei into the despawning animation the player could stop shooting by either releasing the [key=Shift] or the [key=Z] key, although the latter is much harder to perform.

### 5-gohei explanation
[hr_minor]

This section explains a gohei dupe [a=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s96Bvwoptqg]that generates 5 goheis[/a]. This dupe is a TAS (Tool Assisted Speedrun) performed by Nylilsa using a custom stage. [hl2]This custom stage does not modify the shottype ReimuA[/hl2]. 

The following steps are performed sequentially:
1. Spawn Gohei 1 (``GH1``)
2. Put ``GH1`` in its despawning animation
3. Spawn Gohei 2 (``GH2``)
4. Put ``GH2`` in its despawning animation
5. Spawn Gohei 3 (``GH3``)
6. Put ``GH3`` in its despawning animation
7. Spawn Gohei 4 (``GH4``)
8. Let ``GH1`` despawn by going off-screen
9. Spawn Gohei 5 (``GH5``)
10. Let ``GH2`` despawn by going off-screen
11. Spawn Gohei 6 (``GH6``)
12. Let ``GH3`` despawn by going off-screen
13. Spawn Gohei 7 (``GH7``)
14. Put ``GH6`` despawn in its despawning animation ([hl2]gohei ``GH6`` was chosen arbitrarily[/hl2])
15. Spawn Gohei 8 (``GH8``)
16. Let ``GH6`` despawn by going off-screen
17. Spawn Gohei 9 (``GH9``)

The player is left with five goheis: ``GH4``, ``GH5``, ``GH7``, ``GH8``, and ``GH9``.

Recall the steps taken in the [jumpto=#/bugs/th14/gohei-dupe#howithappens]How section[/jumpto]: we repeat steps 1 and 2 at the start to spawn multiple goheis, put them in their despawning animation, and let them go off screen. This allows for more goheis to be generated because there are more instances of a gohei going off-screen.

[hr_minor]

The full explanation goes as follows:

1. We spawn ``GH1``, preferably at the top of the screen. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``. [hl2]We want to make sure that ``GH1`` despawns by going off-screen on a frame that aligns with the shot cycle[/hl2]. Since in this case we spawn ``GH1`` at the top of the screen, there are three concepts to take into account: [hl2]the player's y-coordinate[/hl2], the [hl2]speed of the gohei[/hl2] (which depends on when [key=Shift] is released), and the [hl2]size of the gohei[/hl2].
2. We put ``GH1`` in its despawning animation, which we can only do if the gohei [hl2]does not have a target[/hl2]. In this case, we can easily achieve this by unholding [key=Shift] for one frame. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``false``.
3. Similar to step 1, we spawn ``GH2`` at the top of the screen. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``.
4. Similar to step 2, we put ``GH2`` in its despawning animation. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``false``.
5. Again, similar to step 1, we spawn ``GH3`` at the top of the screen. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``.
6. Again, similar to step 2, we put ``GH3`` in its despawning animation. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``false``.
7. Once again, similar to step 1, we spawn ``GH4`` at the top of the screen. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``.
8. [hl2]``GH1`` must despawn on a frame on which the shot cycle is divisible by 3[/hl2]. Additionally, [hl2]``GH1`` must occupy a bullet slot higher than what ``GH4`` has[/hl2]. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``false``.
9. One frame later ``GH5`` can be spawned. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``.
10. ``GH2`` must despawn on a frame on which the shot cycle is divisible by 3. Additionally, ``GH2`` must occupy a bullet slot higher than what ``GH4`` and ``GH5`` has. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``false``.
11. One frame later ``GH6`` can be spawned. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``.
12. ``GH3`` must despawn on a frame on which the shot cycle is divisible by 3. Additionally, ``GH3`` must occupy a bullet slot higher than what ``GH4``, ``GH5``, and ``GH6`` has. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``false``.
13. One frame later ``GH7`` can be spawned. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``.

We can only [hl2]spawn a gohei once every 3 frames[/hl2], and there is [hl2]a limit of 12 frames[/hl2] before a gohei despawns, meaning we can have at most 4 goheis at the moment (``GH4``, ``GH5``, ``GH6``, and ``GH7``). To continue the dupe, we need to despawn the gohei that takes up the highest bullet slot. We arbitrarily choose ``GH6`` to be the gohei with the highest bullet slot taken. We spawn two enemies which are called Enemy 1 and Enemy 2. ``GH6`` targets Enemy 1 while ``GH4``, ``GH5``, and ``GH7`` target Enemy 2. [hl2]We want to make sure that ``GH6`` is more than 320 units away from Enemy 2[/hl2] such that ``GH6`` doesn't target Enemy 2. We want [hl2]``GH6`` to exit the screen with a high enough velocity[/hl2]. We achieve this by [hl2]letting Enemy 2 go off-screen and despawn[/hl2].

14. We put ``GH6`` in its despawning animation, which we can only do if the gohei does not have a target. In this case, we can easily achieve this by unholding [key=Shift] for one frame. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``false``.
15. One frame later ``GH8`` can be spawned. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``.
16. ``GH6`` must despawn on a frame on which the shot cycle is divisible by 3. Additionally, ``GH3`` must occupy a bullet slot higher than what ``GH4``, ``GH5``, ``GH7``, and ``GH8`` has. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``false``.
17. One frame later ``GH9`` can be spawned. [ins=2, n=3] is set to ``true``.

Note that this is [hl2]extremely difficult to do[/hl2] under normal circumstances. In order to generate 5 goheis, 3 goheis must be targeting an enemy, and 1 gohei must have enough velocity to go off-screen on its own. That one gohei must also be [hl2]320 units away from any enemy[/hl2]. On top of this, the unfocus and despawning must take place where [hl2]the shot cycle is divisible by 3[/hl2]. Lastly, that one gohei must [hl2]occupy a bullet slot whose ID is higher than every other gohei[/hl2].

### Notes
[hr_minor]

+ To perform the dupe, the player does not have to release [key=Shift].
+ To perform the dupe, you do not need any enemies on-screen.
+ The dupe can be performed [hl2]regardless of the player's y-coordinate[/hl2], but the set-up is much easier to achieve while being high on-screen.
+ The dupe works if the gohei goes [hl2]off-screen through the side or the bottom[/hl2].
+ The gohei dupe [hl2]does not rely on RNG[/hl2]. The previously described inconsistency factor is [hl2]the ordering of goheis in the bullet list[/hl2].
+ Although understanding the bug makes the gohei dupe more consistent on a TAS-level, understanding the dupe may not necessarily make the bug easier to replicate in real time. This trick still requires skill to perform in real time.
+ In theory, [hl2]there can be up to 254 goheis[/hl2] (two slots must be devoted to the left and right amulet). However, the difficulty comes from letting a gohei despawn by going off-screen while maintaining your other goheis and keeping track of the bullet list. Because of this, [hl2]getting more than 4 goheis is a very difficult task to achieve[/hl2], especially in an unmodified version of the game. 
+ If you want to perform the gohei dupe yourself, you can do so [jumpto=#/guides/th14-gohei-dupe]by clicking here[/jumpto].

### Conclusion
[hr_minor]

[box=1000]The gohei dupe is a glitch in which ReimuA is able to [hl2]have multiple active goheis[/hl2] at once. The flag that determines if a gohei is active [hl2]can be unset while there are goheis on-screen[/hl2]. This can be done by [hl2]letting goheis despawn[/hl2] by not shooting and by letting them go off-screen. To dupe, the player has to [hl2]shoot a gohei on the next frame on the correct shot cycle[/hl2]. Under normal conditions you can have [hl2]at most 4 goheis[/hl2] at once, but [hl2]the actual maximum is 254 goheis[/hl2][/box]

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=QOq4enyZqZ]
+ [cite=hql00fwC48]
+ [cite=RFhleEF25P]
+ [cite=htJpMI6H5q]

### [misc]
+ [cite=swrajocPpX]
+ [cite=p7ycucoqzD]
+ [cite=DUlvnbnwSK] (This links to a patch that allows for debugging goheis run through thcrap. If you do not know how to install thcrap patches, ignore this link)