[title=DDC: Slowdown Item Duplication]
# Slowdown Item Duplication
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] - [yes]1.00b[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] -  [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]SakuyaA[/yes] - [yes]SakuyaB[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The float variable [ins=2, n=2] determines how fast the game runs. Though, [ins=2, n=2] does not simply change the game's FPS - it works through ZUN's ways.

The variable [ins=2, n=2] in DDC changes in the following events:
1. Outside of Spell practice mode, Shinmyoumaru depletes to 0 HP or the timer reaches 00.00s on her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.5``), lasting for 60 frames.
2. Outside of Spell practice mode, Shinmyoumaru explodes after her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.25``), lasting for 30 frames.
3. Outside of Spell practice mode, Raiko depletes to 0 HP or the timer reaches 00.00s on her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.5``), lasting for 60 frames.
4. Outside of Spell practice mode, Raiko explodes after her final spell card (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.25``), lasting for 30 frames.

Doing certain actions when [ins=2, n=2] is not ``1`` results in weird behaviour. This page describes changes around items as a result of this effect.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

During times when [ins=2, n=2] is not ``1`` the following side effects happen.

+ The player loses more power upon death in multiples of ``50``;
+ The player spawns more power items upon death in multiples of ``7``;

Note that if the player uses SakuyaA then the slowdown effect may not take place. This is because the knives of SakuyaA influence the speed at which the enemy performs its actions. SakuyaA can trigger it only if she does not use her slowdown knives.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Suppose that the value [ins=2, n=2] is set to ``0.25``. This means the game runs ``4`` times slower. The game usually executes the power drop/power loss effects for one frame upon death. However, because the game is ``4`` times slower it means that the game executes it ``4`` times instead of the usual ``1`` time. This means that the player ends up losing 200 power but gains 28 power. Note that this happens because the value of [ins=2, n=2] is changed. If the game's Frames Per Second (FPS) were changed through external means, then the same effect does not happen.



[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]
