[title=SA: Negative Spell Bonus]
# Negative Spell Bonus
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [no]Easy[/no] - [no]Normal[/no] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaC[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

It is possible to achieve [hl2]a negative Spell Card Bonus (SCB) on Yuugi's first spell-card[/hl2] (枷符「咎人の外さぬ枷」) on the difficulties [hl2]Hard/Lunatic[/hl2]. Upon capturing the spell-card with a negative value, your current score decreases. The SCB displayed will not be very comprehensible:

[img=bugs/th11/0_negative_score.png, figtitle=A negative SCB is gotten, displaying a weird bonus, alt=A screenshot with the text "Get Spell Card Bonus!! with weird uncomprehensible text"] [br]

If you capture the spell with an SCB of exactly ``0``, you get no score and no score value is displayed:

[img=bugs/th11/0_no_score.png, figtitle=Spell Bonus is gotten but no bonus is provided, alt=A screenshot with the text "Get Spell Card Bonus!!"] [br]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This is done by timing down Yuugi's first spell-card (枷符「咎人の外さぬ枷」) on either Hard or Lunatic difficulty. To be more precise, the player must [hl2]time down this spell-card to a time below ``04.68s``[/hl2] for the SCB to become negative.

[img=bugs/th11/0_zero_scb.png, figtitle=An SCB of zero is shown at exactly t=04.68s, alt=A screenshot of the fight with Yuugi on her first spell-card"] [br]

## [why]
[hr_minor]

### How SCB is calculated
[hr_minor]

The rate at which the SCB decreases is determined by the ECL instruction [ins=0, n=539]. The ``timeRate`` parameter is the only parameter that influences the SCB. Calculating the SCB at a given point is done with the following formula:

[code]function compute_output_score(max_score, time_rate, current_time) {
    if current_time < 300 // scb decreases only after first 5 seconds (300 frames)
        return max_score
    score_div_10 = floor(max_score / 10)
    score_loss = truncate((max_score - score_div_10) / (time_rate - 300))
    score = max_score - (score_loss * (current_time - 300))
    score = score - (score % 10)
    return score
}
[/code]

+ ``max_score`` is the maximum score you can get from capturing the spell-card. This value is hard-coded.
+ ``time_rate`` is the second value passed in the ECL instruction [ins=0, n=539].
+ ``current_time`` is a number the user passes to calculate what the SCB is at that given time.

Examples:
+ ``compute_output_score(6000000, 2100, 1000)`` outputs an SCB of ``3900000``;
+ ``compute_output_score(6000000, 2100, 2099)`` outputs ``603000``;
+ ``compute_output_score(6000000, 300, 123456789)`` throws a division by 0 error and would crash your game, but this has not appeared in any ZUNcode (yet).

In the example of Yuugi's first spell-card, the ECL instruction [ins=0, n=539] has a ``timeRate`` of ``2100``. The ``max_score`` is ``6000000``, which is [hl2]hard-coded[/hl2] for this stage. For this spell-card to obtain a negative spell-card the output of ``compute_output_score`` would have to be below 0, or in other words we have to find a value ``t`` such that ``compute_output_score(6000000, 2100, t) < 0``. For this to be true, ``t`` must be ``2301`` or greater.

But how is it possible that the ``t`` value is greater than the ``time_rate`` value ?

### The ECL instruction [ins=0, n=514]
[hr_minor]

The ECL instruction [ins=0, n=514] has a parameter ``time``. [hl2]This parameter determines how long a pattern lasts for[/hl2]. For example, if ``time`` is 3600 then the attack lasts for 3600 frames or 60 seconds.

The ``time`` parameter of [ins=0, n=514] should always be equal or less than the value ``timeRate`` of [ins=0, n=539]. This is true for every spell-card in Touhou expect for one spell-card, Yuugi's first spell-card.

On Yuugi's first spell-card, the ``time`` parameter of [ins=0, n=514] is ``2580`` (= 43.00s). In contrast, the ``timeRate`` parameter of [ins=0, n=539] on Hard/Lunatic is ``2100``. This means that it is possible to get a ``t`` value greater than the ``time_rate`` value. This happens because [hl2]ZUN forgot to change the ``time`` parameter to ``2100`` for Hard/Lunatic[/hl2].

Below is the ECL code that is responsible for this bug. [ins=0, n=514]'s ``time`` parameter is the same for the spell on Easy/Normal and Hard/Lunatic despite the different ``timeRate`` value.

[code]    setInterrupt(0, 0, 2580, "Boss2");
!EN
    spell(30, 2580, 500000, "怪輪「地獄の苦輪」");
!HL
    spell3(32, 2100, 500000, "枷符「咎人の外さぬ枷」");
!*[/code]

This issue could [hl2]easily be fixed[/hl2] by changing the ``timeRate`` value from ``2100`` to ``2580``.

[code]    setInterrupt(0, 0, 2580, "Boss2");
!EN
    spell(30, 2580, 500000, "怪輪「地獄の苦輪」");
!HL
    spell3(32, 2580, 500000, "枷符「咎人の外さぬ枷」");
!*[/code]

Alternatively, the spell-card duration could be reduced to ``2100`` frames on Hard/Lunatic:

[code]!EN
    setInterrupt(0, 0, 2580, "Boss2");
!HL
    setInterrupt(0, 0, 2100, "Boss2");
!*
!EN
    spell(30, 2580, 500000, "怪輪「地獄の苦輪」");
!HL
    spell3(32, 2100, 500000, "枷符「咎人の外さぬ枷」");
!*[/code]

### Conclusion
[hr_minor]

[box=1000]The negative SCB bug on Yuugi's first spell-card comes from a [hl2]mismatch between[/hl2] the [hl2]spell duration[/hl2] and the [hl2]timeRate parameter[/hl2] used in [hl2]Spell Card Bonus (SCB) calculation[/hl2]. This inconsistency allows the SCB formula to [hl2]produce negative values[/hl2] when the spell is [hl2]timed down[/hl2] beyond its intended limit. Due to a simply oversight, this behaviour is [hl2]unique[/hl2] to this spell-card on the difficulties Hard/Lunatic.[/box]

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=owI5mOSMmn]
+ [replay=g0dRW3SG14]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

