[title=SA: ReimuA 2 Power Damage]
# ReimuA 2 Power Damage
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [no]ReimuB[/no] - [no]ReimuC[/no] - [no]MarisaA[/no] - [no]MarisaB[/no] - [no]MarisaC[/no]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

2p (2 power) ReimuA deals very few damage more compared to 1p ReimuA.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This is done by playing as the character ReimuA and being between 2.00-2.95 power. This affects both the focused and unfocused shot of ReimuA.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Below is denoted some information about the damage of 1p ReimuA and 2p ReimuA. The information was extracted from the ``pl00a.sht`` file.

Damage information of 1 power ReimuA:

| Shooter  | Damage | Shot per second |
|----------|--------|-----------------|
| Left Amulet | 15     | 20              |
| Right Amulet | 15     | 20              |
| Needle 1 | 7      | 20              |
| Needle 2 | 7      | 20              |
[br]

Damage information of 2 power ReimuA:

| Shooter  | Damage | Shot per second |
|:----------|--------|-----------------|
| Left Amulet | 14     | 20              |
| Right Amulet | 14     | 20              |
| Needle 1 | 5      | 20              |
| Needle 2 | 6      | 20              |
| Needle 3 | 6      | 20              |
| Needle 4 | [hl1]0[/hl1]      | 20              |
[br]

``Shooter`` displays information about what type of bullet ReimuA shoots.
``Damage`` gives information about how much damage per shot one bullet deals
``Shot per second`` gives information about how many shots per second are fired, assuming the player continuously holds [key=Z] to shoot.

It can be seen that [hl2]one of the needles[/hl2] of 2p ReimuA deals ``0`` [hl2]damage[/hl2].

Given the information in the tables above, it is possible to calculate the DPS (Damage per Second) of both 1p ReimuA and 2p ReimuA. The DPS of 1p ReimuA is equal to ``20 * (15 + 15 + 7 + 7) = 20 * 44 = 880`` damage per second. The DPS of 2p ReimuA is equal to ``20 * (14 + 14 + 5 + 6 + 6 + 0) = 20 * 45 = 900`` damage per second.

The [hl2]increase in damage[/hl2] from 1p ReimuA to 2p ReimuA is only an [hl2]increase of 2.27%[/hl2].

For comparison, let's also calculate the DPS of 3p ReimuA and 4p ReimuA. The DPS of 3p ReimuA is equal to ``20 * (14 + 14 + 5 + 5 + 5 + 5 + 5 + 5) = 20 * 58 = 1160`` damage per second. The DPS of 4p ReimuA is equal to ``20 * (14 + 14 + 5 + 4 + 4 + 5 + 4 + 5 + 5 + 4) = 20 * 64 = 1280`` damage per second.

The increase in damage from 2p ReimuA to 3p ReimuA is a staggering increase of [hl2]28.9%[/hl2].

The increase in damage from 3p ReimuA to 4p ReimuA is an increase of [hl2]10.3%[/hl2].

The 2p ReimuA bug is most likely caused because [hl2]ZUN had made a typo[/hl2] resulting in one of 2p ReimuA's needles to deal ``0`` damage.


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]

