[title=SA: Mid-boss skips]
# Mid-boss skips
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [no]ReimuA[/no] - [no]ReimuB[/no] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [no]MarisaC[/no]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

It is possible to skip the mid-bosses Rin and Sanae in Stage 6 and Extra stage respectively. In both cases, the stage progresses normally if the boss skip is performed.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

It is not possible to shoot or bomb during the dialogue. Though, it is possible to [hl2]deal bomb damage during the dialogue[/hl2]. The skip is done by [hl2]bombing right before the dialogue starts[/hl2], dealing damage to the boss. This can only be done with characters that have a strong enough bomb that can fully deplete the mid-boss's HP.

In Stage 6, the mid-boss Rin can be skipped by [hl2]ReimuC, MarisaA and MarisaB[/hl2].
In the Extra stage, the mid-boss Sanae can be skipped by [hl2]ReimuC and MarisaB[/hl2].

## [why]
[hr_minor]

When the mid-bosses Rin and Sanae spawn, [hl2]the mid-bosses do not have invincibility[/hl2], meaning boss can take damage.

Usually when facing a mid-boss, the mid-boss is programmed to go to their spell-card attack when their HP is depleted enough. However, these checks are not initialised yet when the boss appears - only when the dialogue has ended will be mid-boss use her attacks and set her spell-cards.

By using a well-timed bomb, the mid-boss is able to take damage during dialogue and thus the mid-boss can be killed and completely skipped.


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=8yxQ1EpFJI]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=9qHKECH5FT]
+ [cite=r5TbjJYm6x]

[buildCategoriesTable]