[title=SA: ReimuC Desync]
# ReimuC Desync
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no]
* **Shottype**: [no]ReimuA[/no] - [no]ReimuB[/no] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [no]MarisaA[/no] - [no]MarisaB[/no] - [no]MarisaC[/no]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Rarely, a replay using ReimuC desyncs. This only happens when starting a replay from a stage between stages 2 through 6 inclusive. If the replay is started on the stage before the desync happens, the desync does not take place.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

When the desync occurs, [hl2]ReimuC is always moving immediately before the stage transition[/hl2]. In particular, ReimuC is moving with her [hl2]fast unfocused speed[/hl2].

To move quickly as ReimuC, [hl2]the player must do all of the following[/hl2]:
+ ReimuC must not shoot.
+ ReimuC must be unfocused.
+ ReimuC must be moving around.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

For ReimuC to move quickly while unfocused, [hl2]ReimuC must already be moving prior[/hl2] for a few frames. In other words, [hl2]the game must detect that ReimuC is already moving[/hl2] before ReimuC can move with her fast unfocused speed.

When loading a replay from stage 2 through stage 6, [hl2]the game does not detect that ReimuC was moving during the stage transition[/hl2]. This means that if a replay is loaded from stage 2 through stage 6, and before the stage transition took place you were moving around quickly, the unfocused speed is not carried through. [hl2]This difference in speed is what results in a displacement in position[/hl2], which quickly results in a desync.

To avoid the desync, play the replay from a stage earlier.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=0M0iBCNjkv]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=1ILtinP3Fc]
