[title=SA: Score Desync]
# Score Desync
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaC[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Quite often, the score at the end of stages 2 through 6 may end up with a slightly different value that only varies by a couple thousand points. 

Note: This shift in score does not cause a replay desync!

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This often happens when rewatching a replay that is on stage 2 through stage 6. Note that the replay does not need to start on stage 2 through stage 6, meaning that starting a replay from stage 1 may give a different score when exiting stage 2.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The score desync is caused because [hl2]the replay stores an incorrect PIV (Point Item Value)[/hl2].

In SA, the PIV can be increased as follows:
1. Collect a big green star item (collecting 1 increases PIV by 100)
2. Collect a small green item (collecting 1 increases PIV by 10)
3. [hl2]Collect a cancel item[/hl2] (collecting 100 increases PIV by 10)

For the last point, only for every 10 cancel items collected, the PIV increases by 10. However, this does not mean that 1 cancel item collected increases the PIV by 1. This means that if a total of 25 cancel items have been collected, the PIV is increased by 20.

Though, the game needs to keep track of how many cancel items have been collected. Luckily, the game keeps track of this by increasing the PIV.

### PIV stored internally
[hr_minor]

The PIV stored internally is different from what is shown in-game.

[img=bugs/th11/4_piv.png, hratio=2, other= ] [br]

In the screenshot above, the PIV is ``214810``. This PIV is used for calculating the value of point items. The PIV stored internally is ``21481480``. The actual PIV is calculated as follows: ``Actual PIV = Internal PIV / 100 - Internal PIV / 100 % 10``

In SA, when increasing the [hl2]internal PIV[/hl2] the following actually happens:
1. When collecting a big green star item internal PIV increases by 10000)
2. When collecting a small green item internal PIV increases by 1000)
3. When collecting a cancel item internal PIV increases by 10)

### PIV stored in the replay
[hr_minor]

At the end of stages 1 through 5, various variables are saved. One of the variables saved is the PIV. 
The value of the internal PIV is not directly copied to the replay. Instead, similarly the PIV stored in the replay is as follows: ``Stored PIV = Internal PIV / 100 - Internal PIV / 100 % 10``

When the next stage is loaded, the actual PIV is set as follows: ``Actual PIV = Stored PIV * 100``

When the next stage is loaded, there is a small difference of ``Internal PIV / 100 % 10`` in the internal PIV. Since there is a difference in the internal PIV, it means that the value of point items may deviate by exactly 10 points, which causes the slight score desync.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Nearly all replays should have this bug, so none are provided for now.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

Not soon.
