[title=SA: ReimuA Desync]
# ReimuA Desync
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [no]Normal[/no] - [no]Hard[/no] - [no]Lunatic[/no] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [no]ReimuB[/no] - [no]ReimuC[/no] - [no]MarisaA[/no] - [no]MarisaB[/no] - [no]MarisaC[/no]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Rarely, a replay desyncs on Stage 4. This only happens as [hl2]ReimuA[/hl2], and also only on the difficulty [hl2]Easy[/hl2] mode. For the desync to happen, the replay can be started from any stage. This also means that [hl2]Practice mode replays may desync[/hl2]. Though, the desync seemingly happens at random.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

For the desync to happen, the player must do the following:
1. Play as ReimuA
2. Play on Easy mode
3. Play on Stage 4, and survive until Satori's 3rd spell-card.

The desync [hl2]sometimes[/hl2] happens on Satori's 3rd spell-card or later.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Satori's boss-fight is unique in the sense that every shottype faces three different spell-cards. The code provided in this section is from the ``stage4c00a.ecl`` file, which is the code that is called when playing as ReimuA. The code was decompiled using thecl.

### The code
[hr_minor]

The [hl2]relevant[/hl2] code of ReimuA's 3rd spell-card ``Recollection "Flying Insects' Nest"`` is as follows:

[code]void BossCard3_00A() {
    [...]
    @BossCard3_00Aat3() async;
    [...]
    @BossCard3_00Aat() async;
    [...]
    @BossCard3_00Aat2() async;
    [...]
}[/code]

In this case, Satori calls for three different subroutines: ``BossCard3_00Aat3``, ``BossCard3_00Aat`` and ``BossCard3_00Aat2``. In particular, we want to look at the subroutine ``BossCard3_00Aat2``.

The [hl2]full[/hl2] code of subroutine ``BossCard3_00Aat2`` is pasted below:

[code]void BossCard3_00Aat2() {
    var A, B, C, D, E;
    etNew(0);
    etOffsetAbs(0, 0.0f, 128.0f);
    etEx(0, 0, 0, 4, 30, -999999, -0.3f, -999999.0f);
    %A = _f(-192) + (%RANDF2 * _f(8));
    %B = _f(2);
    goto BossCard3_00Aat2_1496 @ 0;
BossCard3_00Aat2_308:
    playSound(16);
    %D = %RANDF2 * _f(32);
    etOffset(0, %A + (%RANDF2 * _f(0)), %D);
    unless ((($E % 2) == 0) || ($DIFF >= 1)) goto BossCard3_00Aat2_948 @ 0;
    unless (%PLAYER_Y2 < (%D + _f(128))) goto BossCard3_00Aat2_900 @ 0;
    laserOnA2(3, 4, -1.5707964f, 12.0f, 0, 128.0f, 0.0f, 16.0f);
    goto BossCard3_00Aat2_948 @ 0;
BossCard3_00Aat2_900:
    laserOnA2(3, 4, 1.5707964f, 12.0f, 0, 128.0f, 0.0f, 16.0f);
BossCard3_00Aat2_948:
    %C = %B / 2.8f;
    %A = %A + (%C * %C);
    unless (%A > _f(192)) goto BossCard3_00Aat2_1232 @ 0;
    return;
BossCard3_00Aat2_1232:
    unless (%B < _f(128)) goto BossCard3_00Aat2_1388 @ 0;
    %B = %B + _f(1);
BossCard3_00Aat2_1388:
    $E = $E + 1;
    diffWait(6, 6, 6, 6);
BossCard3_00Aat2_1496:
    if (1) goto BossCard3_00Aat2_308 @ 0;
    return;
}[/code]

The first line ``var A, B, C, D, E;`` declares the variables ``A``, ``B``, ``C``, ``D``, and ``E``. The variables aren't too useful in this stage - [hl2]the variables need to be initialised first[/hl2] before usage, which is done by assigning the variables a value. All variables are assigned a value before they are read, [hl2]except for variable ``E``[/hl2]. Its value is read in the line ``unless ((($E % 2) == 0) || [...]``, but ``E`` is not assigned a value prior to this. This means that ``E`` is an uninitialised variable. The uninitialised variable ``E`` will have *some* value, but its value is [hl2]not predictable[/hl2]. 

### Easy-exclusivity
[hr_minor]

The line that is affected is as follows:

[code]unless ((($E % 2) == 0) || ($DIFF >= 1)) goto BossCard3_00Aat2_948 @ 0;[/code]

The variable ``DIFF`` is an integer that returns the current difficulty (``Easy = 0``, ``Normal = 1``, ``Hard = 2``, ``Lunatic = 3``, ``Extra = 4``). 

The line ``($DIFF ＞= 1)`` returns ``true`` if played on Normal/Hard/Lunatic, and it returns ``false`` if played on Easy.

The line ``($E % 2) == 0)`` returns ``true`` if ``E`` is an even number, and it returns ``false`` if ``E`` is an odd number. However, since ``E`` is uninitialised, ``E`` has some value that is unpredictable. It is likely that ``E`` may not even be an integer value, which results in the condition having a [hl2]higher chance to return[/hl2] ``false`` than to return ``true``.

The logical OR operator ``||`` returns ``true`` if one of the operands is ``true`` and returns ``false`` otherwise. This means that the statement ``($E % 2) == 0) || ($DIFF ＞= 1)`` always returns ``true`` if played on a difficulty other than Easy mode.

If the statement is ``true``, then the game goes to the next line: ``unless (%PLAYER_Y2 ＜ (%D + _f(128))) goto BossCard3_00Aat2_900 @ 0;``
If the statement is ``false``, then the game jumps to the label ``BossCard3_00Aat2_948``, [hl2]skipping code responsible for spawning lasers[/hl2] that otherwise would have run if the statement were ``true``.

### Conclusion
[hr_minor]

[box=1000]Replays of ReimuA on Easy mode may desync on Satori's 3rd spell-card. This has to do with an [hl2]uninitialised variable[/hl2] that only affects Easy mode. The uninitialised variable is assigned a [hl2]random[/hl2] value, which causes code-execution to be inconsistent. This causes some lasers to desync, causing the replay to desync.[/box]



[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

Any ReimuA replay of Stage 4 on Easy mode suffices, so none are provided.

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

+ [cite=csXlNTKmMn]