[title=SA: Stage transition Desync]
# Stage transition Desync
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]  

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes] 
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]ReimuA[/yes] - [yes]ReimuB[/yes] - [yes]ReimuC[/yes] - [yes]MarisaA[/yes] - [yes]MarisaB[/yes] - [yes]MarisaC[/yes]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The replay desyncs when starting from the stage prior to the desync. Sometimes, it is also possible for the replay to desync even when playing the replay from the start of the stage, resulting in a replay that cannot be watched unless a third party tool is used.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

Bomb before stage transition happens. The effect may be different depending on the character used and when the bomb was used.
Furthermore, you must have 2.00 power or more for the desync to work when exiting the stage.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

There are two different desyncs that are at play here:
1. Desync starting from the previous stage
2. Desync starting from the current stage

## Previous stage desync
[hr_minor]

Replay data is stored at the [hl2]end of the stage transition[/hl2].
But some replay data, such as score, power, PIV are [hl2]loaded[/hl2] at the [hl2]beginning[/hl2] of the stage transition. (Note that the player position is loaded at the end of the stage transition.) This means if the player changes its power during the stage transition, during the replay the wrong amount of power will be loaded when the new stage is loaded.

Let ``p`` be the power the player exits a stage with. Assume that ``p >= 200``. Then for all ``p``, the following applies:
When [hl2]causing[/hl2] the desync by playing the game the following happens:
1. The stage ends. The player is now in the stage transition.
2. A bomb is used by using the [key=X] key. 1.00 power is lost. The player has ``p-100`` power.
3. Player data is saved to the replay.
4. The next stage starts.

When [hl2]viewing[/hl2] the desynced replay, the following happens:
1. The stage ends. The player is now in the stage transition.
2. Player data is loaded. The [hl2]wrong power is loaded[/hl2], and the ``Power`` text is visually incorrect. The player has ``p-100`` power.
3. A bomb is used by using the [key=X] key. 1.00 power is lost. The player has ``p-200`` power.
4. The next stage starts.

The difference in power causes the desync if the player shoots and/or bombs as certain enemies would be killed too early or too late.

## Current stage desync
[hr_minor]

KIf the player uses a long-lasting bomb, it is possible to [hl2]carry over the bomb to the next stage[/hl2] in which the bomb would interact with an enemy, possibly killing it. When rewatching the replay by directly starting from the stage, the bomb would not be there, meaning that the previously killed enemy would now live on. This desync makes the stage unwatchable when starting directly from the stage.


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=oeFZ1BABul]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

Maybe soon.

