[title=UM: (Sub-)shottypes Not Functioning]
# (Sub-)shottypes Not Functioning
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [yes]Spell practice[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [no]Marisa[/no] - [no]Sakuya[/no] - [yes]Sanae[/yes]
* **Cards**:
[img=assets/th18-cards/8.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/9.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/10.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/11.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/12.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/13.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/14.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/15.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/16.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/17.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/18.png] 


## [what] 
[hr_minor]

Occasionally, various shooters do not work, in which case those shooters do not shoot anything. This issue affects Reimu and Sanae regardless of power level. Additionally, this issue can be replicated by using any of the cards mentioned at the start of the page. This issue [hl2]can be resolved by releasing [key=Z] for about half a second[/hl2].

## [how]
[hr_minor]

To activate this condition, the player must involve releasing and holding [key=Z] multiple times. In particular, the following needs to be done:

1. The player must press [key=Z].
2. The player must press [key=Z] again anywhere between 104 and 119 frames after the initial [key=Z] input.
3. The player must hold [key=Z] 120 frames after the initial [key=Z] input.

This sequence of actions is very easy to do accidentally meaning that it isn't uncommon to encounter this problem.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

In this game, each player's shooter is controlled by two timers ([ins=2, n=4] and [ins=2, n=5]), which determine when bullets are fired by the player. [ins=2, n=4] operates on a 15-frame interval, and [ins=2, n=5] operates on a 120-frame interval.

The shooter thats use [ins=2, n=5] are from [hl2]Sanae[/hl2] (unfocus shot); the other shooters use [ins=2, n=4]. The reason why Sanae's frogs are using [ins=2, n=5] is because those shooters have been manually assigned to [ins=2, n=5] by ZUN. In other words, ZUN made the decision to assign [ins=2, n=5] to these shooters himself.

Both timers have a default value of -1. Whenever the player presses the [key=Z] key, both timers increment by 1 every frame: [ins=2, n=4] increments to 15 and [ins=2, n=5] increments to 120. Once their treshold is reached, the game looks at the current [key=Z] input. If [key=Z] is held, the timer is set to 0, otherwise the timer is reset to -1. This explains why if you press [key=Z] even for one frame, the player continues to shoot bullets for 15 frames instead of immediately stopping. 

The player can only shoot bullets only if [ins=2, n=4] is a value between 0 and 15. This means that the player bullets from [ins=2, n=5] are dependent on [ins=2, n=4]: if [ins=2, n=5] is ticking but [ins=2, n=4] is -1 then no bullets of [ins=2, n=5] are be shot. 

For [ins=2, n=5] to go from -1 to 0, [hl2][ins=2, n=4] also needs to go from -1 to 0[/hl2]. In other words, to activate [ins=2, n=5], [hl2][ins=2, n=4] also needs to be activated simultaneously[/hl2]. In pseudocode its the following:

[code]if (short_timer < 0) {
    if (long_timer < 0) {
        [...] // logic that activates long_timer
    }
}[/code]


This proposes a slight issue. [hl2]If [ins=2, n=4] is already active[/hl2] (i.e. its value is between 0 and 15), [hl2]then [ins=2, n=5] cannot go from -1 to 0[/hl2]. We can achieve this problem by running both timers by pressing [key=Z]. Once both timers are active, we stop [ins=2, n=4] by releasing [key=Z]. This pause in [ins=2, n=4] creates a [hl2]misalignment between the two timers' cycles[/hl2]. After this, we press [key=Z] again to restart [ins=2, n=4] while [ins=2, n=5] continues its cycle independently. We then release [key=Z] to fully reset [ins=2, n=5] to -1: [ins=2, n=5] stops completely. By holding [key=Z] once more, we ensure that [ins=2, n=4] stays active: we end up with a situation where [ins=2, n=4] runs while [ins=2, n=5] remains inactive.

| Is [key=Z] button held? | :NO: | :YES: | :NO: | :NO: | ... | :NO: | :YES: | :NO: | :NO: | :YES: |
| ----------------- | ---- | ----- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | ----- | ---- | ---- | ----- |
| [ins=2, n=4]      | -1   | 0     | 1    | 2    | ... | -1   | 0     | 1    | 2    | 3     |
| [ins=2, n=5]      | -1   | 0     | 1    | 2    | ... | 117  | 118   | 119  | -1   | -1    |

[br]

Because [ins=2, n=5] has stopped, it means that the shooters that use [ins=2, n=5] are inactive, thus [hl2]those shooters do not produce any bullets[/hl2]. However, shooters that use [ins=2, n=4] still produce bullets.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]


[buildCategoriesTable]