[title=UM: Slowdown Item Duplication]
# Slowdown Item Duplication
[hr_major]

## [specs]  
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]  
* **Difficulty**: [no]Easy[/no] - [no]Normal[/no] - [no]Hard[/no] - [no]Lunatic[/no] - [yes]Extra[/yes]  
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [no]Spell practice[/no]  
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes]  
* **Cards**:  
[img=assets/th18-cards/27.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/31.png]


## [what]
[hr_minor]

The float variable [ins=2, n=2] determines how fast the game runs. Though, [ins=2, n=2] does not simply change the game's FPS - it works through ZUN's ways.

The variable [ins=2, n=2] in UM changes in the following event:
1. Momoyo explodes after her final spell card outside of Spell practice mode (``[ins=2, n=2] = 0.25``), lasting for 30 frames.

Doing certain actions when [ins=2, n=2] is not ``1`` results in weird behaviour. This page describes changes around items as a result of this effect.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

During times when [ins=2, n=2] is not ``1`` the following side effects happen.

+ The player loses more power upon death in multiples of ``100``;
+ The player loses more power upon death in multiples of ``50`` (if the player has the Pebble Hat card);
+ The player spawns more power items upon death in multiples of ``7``;
+ The player spawns more bombs upon death in multiples of ``1`` (if the Princess Kaguya's Secret Stach card).

## [why]
[hr_minor]

Suppose that the value [ins=2, n=2] is set to ``0.25`` and the player does not have the Koishi card. This means the game runs ``4`` times slower. The game usually executes the power drop/power loss effects for one frame upon death. However, because the game is ``4`` times slower it means that the game executes it ``4`` times instead of the usual ``1`` time. This means that the player ends up losing 400 power but gains 28 power. Note that this happens because the value of [ins=2, n=2] is changed. If the game's Frames Per Second (FPS) were changed through external means, then the same effect does not happen.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]
