[title=UM: Chimata Final Timeout Crash]
# Chimata Final Timeout Crash
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [no]Main game[/no] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [yes]Spell practice[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes]
* **Cards**:  None


## [what]
[hr_minor]

The game crashes, and you are left with confusion w.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

The game crashes when timing out Chimata's final spell card in Spell practice mode.

## [why]
[hr_minor]


During phase 1 through phase 4, Chimata shoots bullets that transform to knives when too close. There are two conditions that need to be fulfilled for the bullets to transform.

1. The maximum distance between the bullet and the player is 128 units (value is 96 units on phase 3 & phase 4);
2. The minimum distance between the bullet and Chimata is 16 units on all phases.

Note that for both requirements to be fulfilled, [hl2]the bullets must look for both the player's and Chimata's position every frame the bullets are on-screen[/hl2].


The way the game handles the boss when timing down a pattern [hl2]is different in Spell practice[/hl2]:

* The moment a non-timeout spell is [hl2]timed out in Spell practice[/hl2], all bullets are cleared and boss is [hl2]unregistered immediately[/hl2].
* The moment a non-timeout spell is [hl2]captured in Spell practice[/hl2], the bullets slowly clear and the boss is unregistered after 60 frames.
* The moment Chimata's final spell is [hl2]timed out outside of Spell practice[/hl2], the bullets slowly clear and the boss is unregistered after 60 frames.

The fact the boss is unset seems insignificant, but this is what causes the crash.

The bullets read the boss's position off the array ``boss_ids``. This is where it reads off the boss's position every frame when the boss is registered.[br]
When Chimata's final is timed out in Spell Practice, the boss is immediately unregistered. Because of this, [hl2]when the bullets do not find the enemy associated with the ID in the ``boss_ids`` array anymore, the ID the bullets get is ``0``[/hl2]. ``0`` is not a valid enemy ID (valid enemy IDs start from 1), so it fails to find the enemy associated with it. [br]
Because of this, [hl2]when it loads the data from the enemy with the ID ``0`` the bullets access invalid memory. This causes the game to crash.[/hl2]

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]
