[title=UM: D press Desync]
# D press Desync

[hr_major]
## [specs]
[hr_minor]
* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes]
* **Cards**:  
[img=assets/th18-cards/41.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/42.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/43.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/44.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/45.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/46.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/47.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/48.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/49.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/50.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/52.png] [img=assets/th18-cards/53.png]


## [what]
[hr_minor]

Your replay desyncs. In the stage the replay desyncs in the player starts off with the wrong card. You are sad about the fact your first Lunatic 1cc is desynced, and you are desperately looking for a way to fix the desync.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

[hl2]Your replay may desync when pressing D during the stage transition[/hl2]. This only works when there are 2 or more active cards equipped by the player.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

In order to understand why the replay desynchronises we must first understand when and what the replay saves in between stage transitions.

In UM, the most significant data the replay saves go as follows. It saves the data at different points: only at the start and at the end of the stage transition the data is saved. When what gets saved goes as follows:[br]
Data saved at the start of the stage transition:
* Score
* Life count & life pieces
* Bomb count & bomb pieces
* Power count
* Gold count
* Active cards
* Equipment cards
* Passive cards
* Cooldown of your active cards
* Currently-equipped active card

[hl2]Data saved at the end of the stage transition[/hl2]:
* Player's position[br] [br] 

1. In the replay, when entering the subsequent stage, [hl2]the data is loaded at the beginning of the stage transition[/hl2]. However, the currently-equipped active card can change during the stage transition. This means [hl2]when the replay directly starts from the stage it desyncs in the wrong card is loaded because of avoided inputs[/hl2].

But because the data is loaded at the start of the stage transition and the inputs are not avoided this means *the replay should theoretically not desynchronise* when starting from the stage prior. However, this is not the case.

2. For an unknown reason, [hl2]the inputs from your player during the stage transition do not work in the replay[/hl2]. Theoretically, the replay should not desync if the player kept the inputs during the stage transition, [hl2]but the replay does not take it into account[/hl2].

Essentially, the replay does not work when starting directly from the stage and it does not work when starting from the stage prior [hl2]due to two independent mechanics[/hl2].



[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]


