[title=UM: Takane Card Cost]
# Takane Card Cost

[hr_major]
## [specs]
[hr_minor]
* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes]
* **Cards**:  
[img=bugs/th18/cards/39.png]


## [what]
[hr_minor]

The Takane card halves the prices of all cards when equipped.

The shop says the Takane card costs 80 gold. However, [hl2]when buying the card, it only costs you 40 gold[/hl2].

## [how]
[hr_minor]

In order to do this the player must have at least a mix of 80 gold and/or power combined. When this condition is met the player may purchase the card. Though, only 40 gold is subtracted from your purse.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

There are two significant actions going on when purchasing a card:
1. The card you bought is equipped and immediately active. (If you buy the Mokou Feather card you will immediately get 3 extra lives)
2. The gold required to buy it is subtracted from your purse.

Though, the game does not do the two actions simultaneously. [hl2]The game first gives you the card, applying the effect. Then it subtracts the required gold.[/hl2]

[hl2]Takane's card ability is to halve the costs of cards[/hl2]. This effect is applied before the cost is calculated. This means instead of spending 80 gold on the card, only 40 gold is subtracted from the purse. Though, the player must have at least 80 gold in the purse to be able to buy it, despite only costing 40.


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]
