[title=UM: No Bombs in Practice Mode]
# No Bombs in Practice Mode
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [no]Extra[/no]
* **Mode**: [no]Main game[/no] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes]
* **Cards**:  None

## [what]
[hr_minor]

WHen entering Practice mode, you may see that your player has [hl2]no bombs[/hl2]. Additionally, it is also possible for your [hl2]max bomb count to be gone[/hl2].

[img=bugs/th18/4_zero_bombs.png, figtitle=The bomb display shows no bombs., alt=Screenshot of the GUI] [br]
[img=bugs/th18/4_zero_max_bombs.png, figtitle=There is no bomb display in the GUI., alt=Screenshot of the GUI] [br]

## [how]
[hr_minor]

### Zero bombs
[hr_minor]

To get zero bombs, the player must do the following:
1. Launch th18.exe;
2. Go to Practice before the demo replays play;
3. Select any difficulty, any character, any card combination, any stage;
4. Enter the stage.

It is important to note that this only works once upon booting up the game. When resetting the stage the bomb count is set to ``3``. The player must avoid going to "Game Start", "Extra Start", "Spell Practice" and "Replay". Once any stage is loaded this does not work anymore. The only exception is if a replay is loaded that starts with no bombs display.

### No bomb display
[hr_minor]

To get zero bombs, the player must do the following:
1. Launch th18.exe;
2. Go to Practice before the demo replays play;
3. Select any difficulty, any character, any card combination, any stage;
4. [hl2]Hold down any number between 1 to 9 inclusive.[/hl2]
5. Enter the stage.

By [hl2]holding down a number between 1 to 9 inclusive, the starting lives changes[/hl2]: holding down 0 means you start with no lives, holding 1 means you start with 1 life, etc..

It is important to note that this only works once upon booting up the game. When resetting the stage the bomb count is set to ``3``. The player must avoid going to "Game Start", "Extra Start", "Spell Practice" and "Replay". Once any stage is loaded this does not work anymore. The only exception is if a replay is loaded that starts with no bombs display.

## [why_idk]
[hr_minor]

When the game loads, [hl2]many variables are initialized to ``0``[/hl2]. The three variables we will be talking about are ``lives``, ``bombs`` and ``max_bombs``:

+ ``lives``: Your current life count. This is an integer value usually between 0 and 7.
+ ``bombs``: Your current bomb count. This is an integer value usually between 0 and 7.
+ ``max_bombs``: This is the maximum number of bombs you can have. This is an integer value, usually 7.

Since the fields were originally initialzied to ``0``, it means that your ``bombs`` count remains at ``0``. This value can change if you select different modes (e.g. Spell-practice mode). However, you might wonder why this issue only persists on Stage Practice mode and Stage Practice mode (with number press). [hl2]This issue is caused by ``bombs`` and ``max_bombs`` not being set by the game[/hl2] depending on the mode.

|               Mode                |          Lives          |       Bombs        |     Max Bombs      |
| :-------------------------------: | :---------------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|          Main game mode           |            2            |         3          |         7          |
|        Spell-practice mode        |            0            |         0          |         7          |
|           Practice mode           |            7            | [hl1]not set[/hl1] |         7          |
| Practice mode (with number press) | Depends on number press | [hl1]not set[/hl1] | [hl1]not set[/hl1] |


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]

+ [replay=yy3o5Elpvc]
+ [replay=FgFvtztKFL]

### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[buildCategoriesTable]