[title=UM: Centipede + Wolf cards combination]
# Centipede + Wolf cards combination

[hr_major]
## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]Normal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes]
* **Cards**:  
[img=bugs/th18/cards/25.png] [img=bugs/th18/cards/54.png]

## [what]
[hr_minor]

The Wolf card buffs the player's main shot by 40%.
The Centipede card buffs all of the player's shots by a certain number. The player deals x amount more of damage based on the number displayed below the Centipede card.

When equipping both cards at the same time, the effect from the Centipede card is replaced by the effect of the Wolf card.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

This effect automatically takes place upon equipping both the Wolf card and the Centipede card.

## [why_idk]
[hr_minor]

Most likely, the following happens:
1. The game sees that the player has the Centipede card equipped. The player's main shot will be buffed by a certain number.
2. The game then sees that the player has the Wolf card. The game then changes the player's main shot to be 40% stronger than the default shot.
3. Step 2 overrides step 1, hence even at a maximum Centipede value, the main shot only deals +40% damage when paired with the Wolf card.


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]
