[title=UM: Dragon Eater's Chaos]
# Dragon Eater's Chaos

[hr_major]
## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [no]Easy[/no] - [no]Normal[/no] - [no]Hard[/no] - [no]Lunatic[/no] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [no]Practice mode[/no] - [yes]Spell practice[/yes]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes]
* **Cards**:  

## [what]
[hr_minor]

Momoyo's 8th spell-card can freak out and spawn seemingly an infinite number of bullets.

## [how]
[hr_minor]

There are two requirements to be met for this bug to be triggered:
1. The player must time down Momoyo's 8th spell-card for at least 60 seconds.
2. The player must **NOT** be at an incredibly precise angle relative to Momoyo.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

The information provided in this section is obtained by decompiling the ``st07bs.ecl`` file through using ``thecl`` with a premade eclmap.

Momoyo's 8th spell-card uses several [hl2]subroutines[/hl2] to do her attacks. A subroutine is a set of instructions designed to perform a frequently used operation within a program. The following relevant subroutines to Momoyo's 8th spell-card are as follows:

[post BossCard8]
[post BossCard8_At1 or whatever]
[post BossCard8_Enm1 or whatever]

Woah, that is a lot to swallow at once !
I'll explain what everything means in the following section.

### Code Explanation
[hr_minor]

To put it simply, ``BossCard8`` is what Momoyo is currently. ``BossCard8`` tells what Momoyo is doing. A few things ``BossCard8`` tells Momoyo are as follows:
1. Her hitbox size
2. The spell-card name
3. What the next attack is going to be
4. When and how she attacks (but *not* what she attacks)
5. Tells her to execute certain attacks/call for certain subroutines called ``BossCard8_At1`` 

``BossCard8_At1`` is what Momoyo's attack is. In this case, it is quite simple what her attack is. Her attack is to spawn a total of five enemies called ``BossCard8_Enm1`` at a different angle. 

``BossCard8_Enm1`` is what the bullets are and they are also how the bullets behave. This subroutine also determines for how long the bullets keep shooting for per wave. 


[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]
