[title=WBaWC: (Sub-)shottypes Not Functioning]
# (Sub-)shottypes Not Functioning
[hr_major]

## [specs]
[hr_minor]

* **Versions**: [yes]1.00a[/yes]
* **Difficulty**: [yes]Easy[/yes] - [yes]yesrmal[/yes] - [yes]Hard[/yes] - [yes]Lunatic[/yes] - [yes]Extra[/yes]
* **Mode**: [yes]Main game[/yes] - [yes]Practice mode[/yes] - [no]Spell practice[/no]
* **Shottype**: [yes]Reimu[/yes] - [yes]Marisa[/yes] - [yes]Sakuya[/yes] - [yes]Sanae[/yes]
* **Cards**: insert cards

## [what] 
[hr_minor]

Occasionally, [hl2]Sanae's frogs do not work[/hl2] in which case her bullets are not shot. This issue only affects Sanae using her frogs regardless of power level. This issue [hl2]can be resolved by releasing [key=Z] for about half a second[/hl2].

## [how]
[hr_minor]

To activate this condition, the player must involve releasing and holding [key=Z] multiple times. In particular, the following needs to be done:

1. The player must press [key=Z].
2. The player must press [key=Z] again anywhere between 104 and 119 frames after the initial [key=Z] input.
3. The player must hold [key=Z] 120 frames after the initial [key=Z] input.

This sequence of actions is very easy to do accidentally meaning that it isn't uncommon to encounter this problem.

## [why]
[hr_minor]

In this game, each player's shooter is controlled by two timers ([ins=2, n=4] and [ins=2, n=5]), which determine when bullets are fired by the player. [ins=2, n=4] operates on a 15-frame interval, and [ins=2, n=5] operates on a 120-frame interval.

The shooter thats use [ins=2, n=5] are from [hl2]Sanae[/hl2] (unfocus shot); the other shooters use [ins=2, n=4]. The reason why Sanae's frogs are using [ins=2, n=5] is because those shooters have been manually assigned to [ins=2, n=5] by ZUN. In other words, ZUN made the decision to assign [ins=2, n=5] to these shooters himself.

Both timers have a default value of -1. Whenever the player presses the [key=Z] key, both timers increment by 1 every frame: [ins=2, n=4] increments to 15 and [ins=2, n=5] increments to 120. Once their treshold is reached, the game looks at the current [key=Z] input. If [key=Z] is held, the timer is set to 0, otherwise the timer is reset to -1. This explains why if you press [key=Z] even for one frame, the player continues to shoot bullets for 15 frames instead of immediately stopping. 

The player can only shoot bullets only if [ins=2, n=4] is a value between 0 and 15. This means that the player bullets from [ins=2, n=5] are dependent on [ins=2, n=4]: if [ins=2, n=5] is ticking but [ins=2, n=4] is -1 then no bullets of [ins=2, n=5] are be shot. 

For [ins=2, n=5] to go from -1 to 0, [hl2][ins=2, n=4] also needs to go from -1 to 0[/hl2]. In other words, to activate [ins=2, n=5], [hl2][ins=2, n=4] also needs to be activated simultaneously[/hl2]. In pseudocode its the following:

[code]if (timer1 < 0) {
    if (timer2 < 0) {
        [...] // logic that activates timer2
    }
}[/code]


This proposes a slight issue. [hl2]If [ins=2, n=4] is already active[/hl2] (i.e. its value is between 0 and 15), [hl2]then [ins=2, n=5] cannot go from -1 to 0[/hl2]. We can achieve this problem by running both timers by pressing [key=Z]. Once both timers are active, we stop [ins=2, n=4] by releasing [key=Z]. This pause in [ins=2, n=4] creates a [hl2]misalignment between the two timers' cycles[/hl2]. After this, we press [key=Z] again to restart [ins=2, n=4] while [ins=2, n=5] continues its cycle independently. We then release [key=Z] to fully reset [ins=2, n=5] to -1: [ins=2, n=5] stops completely. By holding [key=Z] once more, we ensure that [ins=2, n=4] stays active: we end up with a situation where [ins=2, n=4] runs while [ins=2, n=5] remains inactive.

| Is [key=Z] button held? | :NO: | :YES: | :NO: | :NO: | ... | :NO: | :YES: | :NO: | :NO: | :YES: |
| ----------------- | ---- | ----- | ---- | ---- | --- | ---- | ----- | ---- | ---- | ----- |
| [ins=2, n=4]      | -1   | 0     | 1    | 2    | ... | -1   | 0     | 1    | 2    | 3     |
| [ins=2, n=5]      | -1   | 0     | 1    | 2    | ... | 117  | 118   | 119  | -1   | -1    |
[br]

Because [ins=2, n=5] has stopped, it means that the shooters that use [ins=2, n=5] are inactive, thus [hl2]those shooters do not produce any bullets[/hl2]. However, shooters that use [ins=2, n=4] still produce bullets.

[hr_major]
## [links]
[hr_minor]
### [rpy]
[hr_minor]
### [vid]
[hr_minor]

[cite=dWuVUMHc9Z]
